live so today is basically just going to
be modeling a whole bunch of stuff the
first thing I want to model is I just
got this stepper motor and I've imported
it from stepper online's documentation
and now what we're going to do is just
build a little hat for this thing that
goes around this thing
because the servos that I was using for
the this face tracker I was
building um
it has a screw on here so if we just
undo this because this is not
necessary there's a screw hole in this
face of its thing and it doesn't have a
notch here so it's but it is geared so
you can put this little hat on on it and
um so I just need to redesign cuz the
stepper motor is it just feels way
better the servo it's like creaking and
cranking and it just sounds like [__]
this one it makes sound but
it's not as
jarring um plus I want to get to know to
use steer Motors so what we need to do
actually is we need to go
back and do this is that still
offset we need to take
this and this we need to offset it by we
want the width of the walls to probably
be 2 mm so we let's just say 2.2
to
okay but oh wait but we also want
um let's try
this what the hell is going on we have
this this and this if we try to offset
this by 2.2 does it do what I want
no yeah that's so
weird oh there you go okay so yeah so we
have
this so this is kind of the face that we
want and then I want to make all this
construction
geometry uh with the X key
this x
okay so now here we're going to
extrude
this
by two two is probably thick
enough
um okay now I actually want
to I want to build it downward but so I
want to draw on this
face and I guess I got to hide this
thing can I still okay nice so I can
still have that so which is the real one
this is the real one so what we want is
we want to now offset this by0
2 when marks looking are not from oh
wait can I can I just project this all
into my
okay so now I should be able to oh
wait
whatever
um so I should be able to yeah select
this this offset that damn it what the
hell should I just redraw it
all right let's just redraw
it l dot
dot make it
a okay so if I do this oh wait but I
don't want that
okay well what if I just try it could
not offset curves the
hell wait what if I just try
this wait that's
weird no but I don't want that part of
the arc
okay okay wait
that's
that okay so we're good so now if I
offset dude
what what do what the
[__]
um wait what if I
just wait oh okay wait hold on
if we hide wait is this the current
sketch okay so
let's oh wait maybe maybe that's the
key there's like two there it's probably
what's going
wrong oh okay cool so now if we do minus
2 maybe we should do minus 2.1 we we
really want this to be tight because I
don't want this to slip at all
so hopefully 0.1 that means 05 clearance
all
around could be could be fine okay so
now
um
this
um wait hold on I thought I did new body
I guess I forgot to do new body
okay but effectively yeah we want to
extrude this geometry by what
seven no like
16 I don't want to do two
face does it calculate the distance
maybe I could just do
inspect from there to there is 24 so
maybe I could do 22
oh wait no but I don't want to do that
because if we look
at the geometry of this this
Notch is going to collide so we actually
want to know the distance
from
uh this face
to this face which is
15 so I say let's just do it to
14 I'll just do 14 I
guess uh
okay or whatever we'll make it 15 um
okay so yeah so let's extrude extrude
this by uh
15 and you would hope that it tells me
that there's some interference but I
guess since it's the same body they're
not going to tell me
that okay but then I just want to
draw a little thing on
here oh I guess I want to draw it from
this
side so how do how do you do
that oh maybe I can just do that okay so
let's we do new sketch
we want to do it
on yeah but not on that face where's the
origin let's hide the body hide the
body oh see but that made a new I don't
like that we we'll we'll start this over
that's how these things
go okay so we put it on that but now we
need to offset it to the mid oh wait
this is the middle that's pretty nice
actually uh so now we just need to draw
a
line we just extrude a rectangle oh you
know what I probably could have just
drawn a rectangle on it and extruded it
I don't need it to be a
triangle all right so let's cancel
that if I just extrude this I think it
just
works okay cool
all right so now we have done it and we
should be able to put this
on and I mean ideally I could like do
the experiment to figure
out how much force it's going to take
for to for it to slip but for right now
I just want to start
small because there's a lot of stuff to
model today
um okay so we're just going
to do this all over
again
okay so um we're going to do assemble
new
component
hat uh and the parent is
this oh wait I wanted to actually import
this as its own component
though oh I think that okay that's
that's fine yeah so now oh and there's
actually this taper here I didn't so the
distance from
here
to here is
15 but
what's the distance
to does it tell me it does tell me both
dimensions so it's half a
millimeter
um see I think I'll just make it a
cylinder I don't think I actually
care okay so we are going
to okay so we're going to do a new
sketch
on here then we need to
project this stuff and make them all
construction
lines do we need this I guess I'll do
this then what is that
one okay so then that should be all I
need oh and
then is that is that curved or does that
just look curved I don't think that's
curved
okay okay okay so now we
offset
[__] this
this that and we want to offset this by
what did I say
2 I guess 2.1
okay and then this is getting like
really okay there we go that that's way
cleaner to look at oh and then this is
not a construction Line This is a real
line same with this okay then we want
to take this and offset It Again by
minus two oh what one or more of the
selected curves has already been offset
consider offsetting the original profile
oh that's
interesting uh oh and you know what wait
did I [__] this
up first we want to extrude this by
two and then where's the body okay so
yeah then we want to draw on this
face and we still want to see that other
sketch where's the sketch
sketches is it
this okay so now we want to draw on this
face
okay so now we want to I don't I don't
think it's going to let me use this cuz
it's part of another thing what if I
just try to project it
okay
whatever okay yeah that should be good
so
now hold
on what the hell is going on
here why can't I
select just the part that I want first
off these are all supposed to be
construction
lines
[__] why can't I do what I want
um oh come on man what the [__] is going
[Music]
on cuz if I try to extrude this oh wait
what the
hell is that why
oh wait no that
is no that that's not what I want
because I
need what if we just did that why is
this so high up though
okay well I don't know exactly what
happened but that's no wait but that's
the opposite of what we want we want
this
face so cancel
that why is this up there that's the
weird
part okay wait if we do
this let's just finish the
sketch okay
maybe I have to project more
geometry okay so let's try to
draw this thing
what I feel like it's selecting the
wrong thing for me to draw on oh no it's
not
um so I do want to hide
this and then I want to hide that
whatever that
is
I oh yeah
oh wait what if I did this hide this
body enable that and then wherever that
guy is is this the expanded one though
is this the big
one I don't think
so so wait so let's just
project
this
this okay so now we should
actually I don't know how to select this
thing oh wait maybe we need a line
here wait but we need the
line oh wait
bro why is this tweaking me
out we have this like closed curve
here well actually okay you know what I
can do I can just extrude this by what
was it 15
[Music]
uh okay let's do that but then hide this
and then we want to
take
this and you want to extrude
that-
15 and we want it to cut okay so at
least we
got
it okay so that should
be good now we just need to extrude this
face by whatever 15 how how how much was
it 20 what let's just make it
uh no why do we need to do that this is
just to see if it works all right 20 is
fine so now this
body hat we want to save as
mesh hold on
uh we're going to call it
um stepper hat
okay so now that I have the mesh of that
I can go to Bamboo studio and oh [__] I
forgot I keep having this issue where
I'm sure other people run into this I
don't know why if I print with the white
filament that I have here I'll show you
when I get into the bamboo
Studio It's So Random I get this error
on the last layer the print is like
totally done but for some
reason but it's only with this orange if
I do it with this um
white it works totally
fine um so I forget what is the fix for
this I need to
remember I think what I do is I
disconnect the the pfte tube on the back
I pull it out I cut some
out and then
what all right I guess I'll be back in a
minute cuz I can't print this thing
until
I fix this thing but it's it's so
annoying cuz I can't print with orange
without having to deal with
this
um
presumably what the f what the
Fick that's actually kind of annoying in
some ways this is the first time I've
exported as
uh um 3mf and it's actually more
annoying to use
3mf okay so that's that's good and I
mean yeah that's totally fine it should
only take like yeah
and then maybe later I'll bring out my
stepper motor and I'll show you guys
because I got it working it's kind of
inside and it's
all but maybe it' be good to show how it
works that code is total garbage but
whatever it uses a potentiometer and it
just like spins in the direction of the
potentiometer okay let me go fix this
[__]
for
for for
s
for
for for
[Music]
for
I really hope it's not the uh AMS that's
messed up I really hope it was just that
that orange I don't know it's
weird cuz I would hate to not have be
able to use that thing you so I've never
replaced this filament so uh
so on the wide piece
okay so I have
my filament
damn this is sheld
okay I need to get some scissors
[Applause]
okay all
right oh [__]
these silica
beads I don't think it think it must
have
broken transport or something
I have to clean those up
okay okay
okay that piece needs to
go to the block
damn
okay oh yeah so I put it in
backwards so hold
on where's the end here's the end so it
should
go like well maybe it
okay right there's only a notch on one
side so it can't be that
[Music]
did I get
it I can't
tell I must have
okay align it to with the notch on the
inner ring of the filament roll insert
the wide piece into the filament
roll align the
triangles align the triangles on the rim
of each piece and insert the narrow
piece and those push firmly into the
wide
piece
okay for
it just keeps coming out
though okay that seems strong
[Music]
okay then you just pull these guys okay
this
is whack
[Music]
oh I need it oh I need that
paper stick the included
label into the
groove
oh yeah well it is pla basic so that's
fine we don't need to do it okay so now
I oh there's one
more so now I can go install this and
hopefully I can print a black part
[Music]
part okay
so yeah this desicant like just
completely just exploded in the bag
[Applause]
okay I'll be back
spe
e for
all right so now if I
sync that's not
right oh there we go
there we go okay so now slice
plate oh wait I didn't get a do color
picking
okay so that's our little modeling test
so yeah I guess in 12 minutes we'll
figure out whether or not I actually
have a problem with my AMS
oh yeah that reminds me I need to I need
to clean up the bottom of the bed is
like totally
gross
okay so that's one
thing now the next thing
is aack and
pinion
so right so instead of a um so I think
I'm the first part is I'm just going to
follow these two
tutorials but
then after
that I'm going to adjust the design so
that I can put a Servo in
there and design a little program for
the
servo and then I don't know how you're
going to create a low friction interface
between the rack and the ground
but maybe that's not
important see this is a nice design
because you don't really need a handle
or anything it's pretty minimal
components
oh wait maybe I should
um so
this and
okay also highly educational let's Jump
Right In we'll Begin by creating a new
design and here instead of starting with
a sketch we're going to go ahead and
start by using a gear generator right
under the utilities menu here and we can
go to add-ins and then script and
add-ins we'll get this dialogue box and
if you scroll all the way down we'll see
our python spur gear generator we're
going to click run and you'll get the
okay yeah so just start a new one
this dialog box here now don't be
overwhelmed if you see all these terms
here that you may not grasp the full
meaning of I'm no mechanical engineer
here and actually my approach to this
was just to kind of play around with the
numbers and see what happen sort of a
trial and error here so the way I
started is I looked at this pitch
diameter and I have a pitch diameter in
mind of the size of gear I want to make
so I started experimenting with the
numbers here to see what affects that
parameter there now you can't directly
change pitch diameter you just can only
affect it by changing these other
parameters and I found that the two that
affected are the number of teeth and the
module so number of teeth 24 sounded
good to me module I brought that down to
two and that went from a 3 and something
pitch diameter to 48 mm all right that
looks good except I've got this sort of
message here and I can see my okay
button is grayed out so let's look at
what that message says it says the root
fillet radius is too large it must be
less than 1.18 no problem I can make
that happen root fillet radius going to
change that to one now the rest the
GE
okay okay
nice and so presumably I can just make
the
uh can we do that
again whole
diameter yeah so what was the whole
diameter
five
okay yeah that should be
fine you can make that whatever
thickness you want I'm going to leave it
at 12.7 not sure if that's sort of a
default gear thickness or what whole
diameter I'll just leave it the same as
well you can always change this by
creating a sketch and extruding anyway
but I'm going to not complicate things
leave everything else as is and click
okay and there we have it my gear right
there on the origin there sensor on next
my plane in this orientation is that
automatically make him a new component
oh yeah how come his is orange man I
want mine to be
orange oh wait maybe it's just
this if I like right click this thing
can I appearance yeah appearance but
also maybe that's like deprecated I
don't know
oh I have to drag it on here okay that
was stupid I don't want
that why can't I right click this thing
what the [__] is going
on there we go
I want mind I'm just going to leave it
as it is and you also one thing I want
to point out is that came in as a
component so you can see the little
component symbol there and if I expand
it you see you've got your own bodies
and your own sketches and the cool thing
here if I go down to the timeline and I
click the little plus button you can
actually see how this component was made
with that python script so here if I
just just walk through the timeline
we've got a couple sketches there an
extrusion a second sketch here and this
sketch actually shows the profile that
was made to create the tooth of the gear
so here we see it's generating a bunch
of spline points to create that profile
and then the next item here is it
extrudes it up and we have a fillet and
a circular pattern and then final sketch
here show the API must be pretty pitch
diameter circle
4M so I just wanted to show that here
just in you were curious of how they
made this and you kind wanted to see an
making your own okay that's that I'll
collapse that timeline there and now
we'll create our next component here
which is going to be our rack to do that
I'll click on the top of my browser here
select new component and give it a name
we're going to call this one rack and
then we're going Orient to a top view
here as we're looking at it from our
view Cube orientation and I'm going to
right click go to move copy I'm going to
select the translate option here move
object a set to bodies I'm going to
select the body and I want to move this
down a certain distance now how far do I
want to move it down well this is very
important because this is what's going
to determine whether the two gears mesh
or in this case the gear in my rack so
the answer to that is you want to look
at what that pitch diameter circle is
here let me cancel out of the move copy
for a second and it's very faint but if
we have it turned on even though that
component is not active we're in the
rack component you can see it right
there and click on it hit that dash line
here and we can see the diameter is 48
mm all right so that tells us that we
want to move down 48 mm because anytime
you have two different gears no matter
the sizes as long as you get that pitch
diameter circle to be tangent the gears
will mesh so again I'll pull up my move
copy by right clicking I'm going to
change this move object to bodies
selection is going to be my body here
and I'm going to choose the translate
option create copy I'm going to make
sure that's activated or enabled and I'm
going to move this down I can just go
ahead and type it in right here 48 mm
and I'm going to click okay now I'm
going to go back to that spur gear here
I'm going to activate that component and
I'm just going to rotate this so that it
looks correct um the important thing
here is that this bottom gear that this
tooth over here is going to be facing
straight up but just so that it looks
right I'm going to right click go to
move copy and rotate this by clicking on
the body here make sure I body selected
my move type is going to be rotate
rotation I can select any one of these
circles here I'll go with that inner
circle and now I can start moving this
to give me a rotation now I can eyeball
it but you don't really want to do that
you want to be as precise as you can get
like I can see that that kind of works
um so we want the exact number here and
how do we figure that out let's back up
for a minute and I'm going to explain
this because to me this is something I
find really helpful um so I'm going to
go under the assumption that you may
find it helpful as well now you may be a
math ways but not all of us are and I'm
certainly not one of them so I have to
kind of think of the rational steps to
slowly step My Mind through how I can
approach this and so that it makes sense
versus just like oh what's the formula
do this because I find memorization to
be useless okay so the question I need
to answer is what is the precise angle I
need to move this and the great thing
with Fusion 360 even if you're not kind
of sure of the math you probably want to
do 360 over 24 over 2 that's my guess
360 over 24 okay so I think you're
supposed to move at
7.5 let's figure it out by measuring
wait let's just let's do this thing okay
so now here new
component
rack rack city be okay now we want to
move this
thing body is this
whoa top right
is that what you did yeah okay now we
want to
move this down minus
48 oh and we want to create
copy okay then we want to rotate this
thing that's not what I
wanted oh wait okay so we want this
thing I'm going to move it I'm going to
rotate
it how do I pick an axis how did he pick
an axis so let's go ahead and create a
sketch now here I have the spur gear
component activated and I'm going to
create a sketch on that uh surface of
that gear and so basically what I want
to know what's the angle to move this
gear one to over oh am I have all right
so what I can do is project in two
points I'm going to hit P for project
specified entities is selected and I'm
going to click on two corresponding
points on different teeth so this point
right here if this tooth is moved all
the way over one step it would be this
same point here I'm going to click okay
and I'm going to draw a line from the
center origin here to that first point
and draw another line to that second
point and if I hit D for Dimension I can
click on both lines and I can see that
that is 15 perfect that's all I needed
there and the other way if you just want
to use math to do this you can say well
okay if I take 360 which is a full
rotation here and I divide it by the
number of teeth that should get me that
same angle right cuz you take that angle
times it by the over of the problem and
if you the right there I'm going to
choose the rotate option select that
inner circle and I can start twisting it
now remember 15 if I do 15 here it's
going to go one full rotation which is
really not going to help me I have to
take half of that to get it to go in
between the two teeth there so half of
15 is 7.5 and enter and there we have it
okay a valid question here would be
wouldn't I want a little clearance here
um between the teeth so they're not you
know grinding um yeah you can do that so
instead of moving this 48 maybe I would
move it down 48.2 mm give me a slight
clearance but to be honest I was curious
and just tried printing it out with no
clearance and it worked fine the gears
weren't getting stuck or grinding so I'm
just going to keep it as is here but
remember you always have the option if
you need to to space that down a little
more to give it a little more clearance
and I'll probably start with like 2 mm
okay I think I'm going to stop there for
now I can see that a full tutorial of
the entire assembly is going to take
quite a bit longer than I anticipated so
instead of making one really long video
I think I'll go ahead and break this
down into a multi-part series so next
week we'll look at creating uh or
jumping into that bottom gear there that
bottom spur gear and we're going to
isolate this one tooth here it's the
only one that's facing vertical right so
we'll look at isolating it and creating
a rectangular pattern of it so that we
can create our rack here and and also
talk about the math involved to space
right so stay tuned for that I'll upload
that video in a few days
cool please don't be a part three hey
guys Vladimir here with desktop Mi I
want to pick up where we left off where
we looking to create this rack and
pinion assembly here so let's go ahead
and jump right if you haven't seen the
first video just go and check out my
videos it will be one right before this
one okay so we created these two Spur
Gears here and the bottom one we want to
go ahead and take that and convert it
into a rack we'll go ahead and activate
the rack components and I'm going to
create a sketch on this bottom gear here
and what we're going to do is just just
project the outline of a single tooth
and now here it's important that this
one tooth is facing completely vertical
so I P4 project and I have specified
entities here selected and I'm just
going to click on the outline here just
be careful you do have to make sure you
get the line if you accidentally click
on the inside just click again to
deselect it and we're going to select
these curves here and then once you get
your selection go ahead and unle the
body here and you should see the outline
there that looks good and then we're
going to hit L4 line and just connect
these two bottom points now you can see
here we have the purple outline but it's
not um connecting because we can't get
like a profile this is what it should
looks like when we click on it should be
highlighted blue and I can tell if I
zoom in here I can see that it's because
we have a gap here now a couple ways we
can go about addressing this we can L4
line connecting these two lines you know
you're perfectly fine just one a line
there that length is 0.026 mm so it's
not going to affect it especially since
we're 3 printing this um but another way
you can address it is just clicking on
it hitting delete and then we can come
in with a tangent Arc so under the
create menu Arc we'll grab a tangent Arc
and then I can click on this top point
and then click on the bottom you can see
automatically adds the tangency will be
good now if I hit deeper Dimension and
inspect this Arc that's 1.0 to8 and this
one over here is uh straight one so it's
not perfect but again at the scale here
we'll be fine so in fact I'm just going
to do the same thing for this one just
so that they're both even I'm going to
go ahead and delete that and grab my
tangent Arc here and we'll go ahead and
click on that top point on that bottom
point now you can see if I click on it
highlights blue so therefore I know it's
a close profile uh so one important take
away from here is when you do bring in
Geometry either you know as an SVG or
dxf or from projecting geometry and it
doesn't highlight you probably have an
open connection there and so zooming in
to where these end points meet is a way
to figure out where you know you need to
address all right so we have what we
need I'm going to click finish sketch
here now I hit e for extrude grab my
profile and I'm going to change the
extent type to two object and I'm going
to orbit to the back of the gear here
select it and it'll reference that as a
distance I'll click okay and there goes
my one I don't need to see the top spur
there so I'm going to unle the
visibility and within my rack component
here I can see I have two bodies body
one here which I don't need anymore that
was simply to reference that you know
that top tooth there to extrude it so
I'm going to right click on it and go
down to remove this will keep things a
bit simpler okay now we're going to take
this one tooth and do a pattern of it so
let me un tackle sketches we'll go to a
front view and I'll grab my rectangular
pattern tool under the create menu go
down to pattern rectangular pattern tool
so here we're going to choose object
type as bodies and we'll select our body
for our axis here we're going to select
the bottom Edge that tells it the
direction we want to go and I'll just
grab this arrow and start bringing it
out now a couple important things we're
going to want to do here is change the
distribution type to spacing and the
direction from one direction to
symmetric now we have to figure out the
distance and this is the distance
between teeth here so if you recall from
the last video we had to figure out
between teeth on the you know circular
spur here and the way we did that is we
took 360 divided by the number of teeth
and that gave us angle between teeth
similar type of concept here except
instead of 360 we need to take the
circumference and divide it by the
number of teeth so if you consider that
pitch diameter circle if take cerence
yeah but
the okay what lay it out straight that
would give us our circumference and if
you remember back from your geometry
days there's a formula for your
circumference and that's 2 pi r but if
we write it in terms of diameter it's
simply diameter * pi so diameter * pi
will give us our circumference and if we
multiply that out it comes out to 1
15.79%
es so I'll start with a open parentheses
there and I want to know my
circumference and like I said that is
going to be the diameter time Pi now I
know our diameter is 48 so time Pi you
have to write that with capital P
capital I close parentheses and then
we're going to take that and divide it
by the number of teeth which is 24 teeth
and there we go it's got our spacing
right there and I'm going to increase
the total number of teeth here the
quantity of 21 and you should did
something like that click okay and we
can measure that spacing right so if I
go to inspect and go between this tooth
here in the same point that the adjacent
to I have it right there 6. 283 awesome
all right now we are cooking so let's go
ahead and continue the design of the
rack I'm going to create a sketch and
I'll just click on this first tooth here
and I'm going to hit P for project I'm
going to project that left point and the
right Point here click okay and then
next we'll grab our three-point
rectangle tool here so the 3.1 is going
to be useful here because we can simply
click on the first point and then click
on the second Point here and then I'm
just going to come down let me move to
the right so we can actually see where
it's showing the distance there I'm
going to type in 3 mm and enter okay EO
extrude we'll select that profile same
idea here we're going to reference the
all right I think I got it let's see if
I can do it so
okay there was a lot in there
um okay so what do we want to do we want
to make a new sketch on
here this is okay so we want to make a
new
sketch and we want
to okay so this is the part that I don't
really know about but we want to
project these guys
this
okay then we want to hide the body right
we want to hide the other
body okay now we have this but we need
to delete this guy actually oh we need
to make a
line okay then we want to delete these
guys
oh okay there we
go what
the why can't I delete this
thing
what so Random
okay there we go I don't know why that
was so
[Music]
weird okay so now we want to create arc
tangent Arc
okay now we should be able to select
this thing and we want to extrude
it
uh two
object this
face Okay cool so now
wait I feel like I missed
something project the outline of a
single tooth and now here it's important
that this one tooth is facing completely
vertical so P4 project and I have
specified entities here selected and I'm
just going to click on the outline here
just be careful you do have to make sure
you get the line if you accidentally
click these curves here see these two
lines you know is just click Point good
one over here is even now you can see if
I click on it away from here from
zooming in
andin my R component here I can okay
wait oh wait did I
do okay
cool so now we want to do rectangular
pattern
bodies
axis and
then what is it we want
spacing and then we want uh
what is it 48 *
pi over what
24 what is
that okay and then we
want uh 21 of them I guess oh we want it
um
symmetric okay cool
did he get a million bodies though two
bodies couple important things
we're we did that is we
took here same point and the adjacent to
all right nice so
then just create a sketch
here project this point and this point
and then we do a rectangle 3point
rectangle all right this thing is not so
bad then we want to extrude this two
object okay join nice and now we only
have two B all right
sweet that was not so
bad I can't wait to oh wait hey my 3D
print is probably
done uh this is so
annoying there's something about
that God that bothers me so [__]
much
whatever
for
[Music]
for for
now
e
[Applause]
for
for for
Okay
so I guess what I'm going to do is
uh just not use that second one anyways
I need
to the
[__] I need to
go
here and where's the oh it didn't save
my thing is that a joke I need to offset
it more I just tried to put it on the on
the thing and the the clearance wasn't
enough
so what if I just try
to do
this
.1 oh
wait this thing
0.1 okay let me
select I select the area in between
there yeah so then here I want to strud
it
minus5 just take a little bit more area
out of
there okay I'm going to save this
again
uh what whatever
okay uh prepare delete
add hat
to it's so annoying that it puts it over
there I'm hoping it's not okay whatever
so let's slice it and let's print it
we're going to print it using
this
okay we're about to find
out I need to get some water I need some
water bro
oh wait I just got an
error oh no that was from the old
[Music]
Air just got a new subscriber on YouTube
I'm sick
Bro okay
all right so let's finish this rack and
pinion and let's see okay so I haven't
really said the plan for this whole
thing but the plan is there's this um
playlist of 12 different basic
mechanisms and the idea is to make fully
3D
printable designs of all these just so
that I can sit around and look at them
and play with them because I feel like I
feel like these mechanisms are like the
platonic solids of mechanical
engineering they're like this is how you
translate Force I mean it's engineering
but it's also just like so practical oh
I also want bevel gear oh yeah bevel
gears is in here I really like bevel
gears my favorite ones are I like the
universal
joint I like bevel
gears I like the worm and wheel oh and I
love the lead
screw I really want to make the lead
screw uh okay I'm going to get some
water for
okay okay and now we have our rack here
okay perfect so we're all set with the
rack and we have our gear here if I
toggle the top visibility of the parent
component dude how did he make those
colors I really want the
colors wait why is
this oh wait I have to okay there we go
but he didn't do appearance he like
what the
[Music]
hell yeah that's what I
want we're going to be talking all about
colors first thing I want to talk about
is under the insect tab you scroll all
the way down to the bottom we will see
component color cycling
toggle oh baby that is nice that is real
nice okay shift n it's so
easy and we can see them both here and
so next there's one more thing we need
to make which is just the base to you
know put this whole thing together so
that you know it can hold it in place
and it can spin so to create the base
we'll first have to create a new
component right click new component here
we're going to call this one
base click okay and we'll create a
sketch on this mid plane here so that
green blue plane uh if you're having
trouble selecting it just untangle the
visibility of that spur gear and go
ahead and click on
it and okay we're going to bring that
gear back on so we can see it and we're
just going to move the view Cube here so
we're looking at you know this
orientation in my screen it's going to
be the left view here with the left
written downwards all right so here
we're going to project a few points here
so P for
project actually we'll do a couple lines
and a point so we're going to do this
line here the bottom and then we're
going to project just the top Point here
of our gear so we're bringing those
points into this current sketch we'll
click okay and now we should see these
purple lines and points we're going to
reference those to create an outline
here so L for line and here I'm not
going to worry so much about distance or
whether my lines are straight so I can
just kind of do something like this you
know just being sort of purposely sloppy
here just to kind of speed things up but
it doesn't matter cuz we're going to
come back down and close it here and
then we'll add some constraints to make
it exactly what we want so you should
have something like this we basically
are just drawing sort of an L shape so
but he's in the midplane so what he's
going to do is he's going to extrude and
then he's going to extrude both
directions then he's going to draw he's
going to deselect the gear and then draw
a circle in the midpoint or maybe he'll
project it and then he'll just extrude
cut the uh
this oh wait is there already a circle
in the middle of the gear Okay so is
going to extrude out uh a cylinder from
the projected Circle that's there all
right I feel like I could probably do
this let's try
this so what do we want we
want to make a new
sketch then yeah the
uh yeah yeah we want this guy and then
yeah I do want to rotate it like this
and then let's enable this again and so
now we do need a project and we need to
project
this
this the oh wait he did the lines
actually
yeah
okay all right so now
uh does his actually go
over no well it does go over it
actually just need it
here okay so I'm just going to get the
rough okay so we're going to extrude
this one side wait two side oh and
unique no symmetric yeah we went
symmetric and we want it to be two
objects oh wait we can't do two object
it's kind of
annoying that's actually really lame we
can't do two
object oh wait I messed this I always
forget this okay so we need to go back
undo all of this
okay new
component base okay
now we make a new sketch on this plane
uh play
this
way reenable this
project
this
okay
wait uh
it
okay and now I'll go ahead and grab my
horizontal/vertical constraints and I'm
just going to click it on each one of
these lines to make sure they're either
vertical or horizontal and I'll just
click on all of them if they're already
uh vertical for example it just give you
an error but that's fine okay next we're
going to add some Dimensions so deer
Dimensions I'm going to click on this
top Edge here and I'm going to make that
5 mm and now I'm going to keep adding
dimensions and I'm going to continue to
reference that Dimension the first one
by clicking on it and you see here it'll
say d55 yours will probably have a
different number but as long as it's
saying D and ref first you're good and
the reason I'm doing this is because if
I want to come back and change that
thickness here all I have to do is
change that first one so let's say I
wanted to do seven you'll see that
they'll all up there and I don't have to
worry about changing each one of them
okay one more Dimension just this line
here I'm going to make this
65 and there we have it I'm going to
click finish sketch click on this
profile
here okay then uh
and then what what was the other one
that he did from here to
here and then oh and then this
okay extrude and here I'm going to go
with a symmetric Extrusion and I'm just
going to pull this out until it extends
past the rack here um so let's say We'll
enter a distance here 70 looks good okay
and there we have it I can untangle that
sketch in there I need to see it okay
cool finish sketch
extrude symmetric
hello tap
fade okay dude Eric do is actually crazy
that's what I wish I was doing in
college bro all right so that's
good so now if we go
here that looks pretty
good and there is our base so if we
activate the parents components here the
whole assembly we should have something
like
this okay almost there just a few more
things we need to do I'm going to go
back into that base component and I want
to go ahead and create has it been 12
minutes oh see and then I didn't get the
error so there's just something lame
about that
freaking second slot that
just
whatever I let it stress me bro I need
let it stretch me
none okay
create the sort of pin here to come out
for the spur gear to be able to rotate
about so let's go ahead and create that
and so we're in the base component here
and I'm going to create a sketch on the
back here and I'm going to orbit back to
the front and I'm going to project this
uh Circle here so P for project I'm just
going to grab it click okay and if I go
to the back I should see it all right
we'll go ahead and un toogle bodies
there just so we can see the circle a
little better and I'm going to un toogle
rack and spur gear components and for
sketches I just need to see the second
sketch here not both of them all right
here we're going to come in and do an
offset and I'm going to click on the
circle here and I'm going to do 5 mm
offset and then finish sketch okay I'm
going to bring that sketch back into
view and that's also look at the body
there cuz we're going to select these
two circles and extrude them in so e for
extrude click both of these circles and
I'm going to go inwards a distance of -3
mm operation is going to be new body and
then I'll click okay and if I unle the
top body here I should see I should just
have this dis here I'm going to click on
that second Circle E4 extrude I don't
know did this time I'm going to bring in
uh body one and I also want to see that
spur gear because what I want to do is
extrude this out and have it go past the
gear in here 20 mm looks good now I want
to have this be a join but I don't want
it to
join the back portion here of that base
so let's untoggle body one and I should
just have this here in fact it's not
going to go ahead and join into the spur
gear because that component is not
activated so I don't need to untoggle
the visibility of it but we don't really
need to see it anymore I just wanted to
reference it now we can just go ahead
and untangle it and we should have
something like this I'm going to click
okay and there we have it that's our pen
let's bring back body one of the base
component here and we'll untangle
sketches is that because he want now sep
between this and this
by overlap each other now I want to use
the pin here to cut out an opening for
it uh on the base so to do that we're
going to go to modify
combine and our Target body is going to
be the base here the tool body is the
PIN operation is cut and we want to make
sure keep tools is checked cuz we want
to keep our pin click okay and now if I
untangle the pin there you should see we
have the hole there and the idea is to
be able to just kind of snap the pin in
there everything looks pretty good here
one final thing we'll need to do is
factor in how everything is going to fit
together and so we're going to have to
uh design a little bit of clearance fit
here uh and so to do that uh consider
our rack sliding back and forth here
we're going to need to give it a little
spacing otherwise it's just going to
bind or probably won't even fit so let's
start with that I'm going to go ahead
and grab my offset face tool here under
the modify menu I'm going to click this
surface here on the back and on the
front so two opposite surface and I'm
going to go a distance of 0.2 mm now
this is something you may need to
experiment with or just know your
printer I'm going to go with 0 2 cuz I
think it'll be good enough for my
printer you may have to do a 0.3 mm
clearance there if you find that you
still need a little more room there but
I'm going to go with 0.2 click okay and
the next clearance I'm going to want to
put in here is on the opening here um
for our pin to fit in here and again
we'll go to modify offset face I'm going
to select the these two surfaces here
and I want this one to be more of a
friction fit so I'm going to do negative
0.1 and click okay or enter and there we
have it now if I bring that body into
view I can see if I go here and zoom in
there should be a little Gap in between
there which is exactly what I want so
let's go ahead and activate the top
level of the component and bring both
all components into view and there we
have it here so if I zoom in here I can
see a little spacing between the front
and the back and of course the space in
between the pin there okay so that's how
we create this rack opinion assembly
with the spur GE rack PR sweet okay so
let me finish it and then I'll do the
uh uh okay so so what did he do he he's
drawing a sketch
on
here but then he's
projecting this
thing and then he offset it by five or
something and then he so let's go back
to
that then he extrude with a
cut and I'll do minus
two because my width is not that much
so
okay
then is that the right sketch that's not
the right sketch wait which uh no hold
on I [__] this
up
okay okay so we want a new sketch on
here and then we want to project this
guy
okay then we want to offset this by
five go ahead and click okay and if I go
to so let's go ahead and create that
component and I want to go ahead and
create components here the whole
assembly we should have something like
this okay almost there's a few more
things we need to do I'm going go back
to the base component and I want to go
ahead and create the sort of pin here to
come out for the S GE to be able to
rotate about so let's go and create that
and so we're in the base component here
and I'm going to create a sketch on the
back here and I'm going to orb it back
to the front and I'm going to project
this circle here so P4 project I'm just
going to grab it cck okay and if I go to
the back I should see it all right unle
bodies there just so we can see the
circle a little better I'm going R and
components and for sketch I need to see
the second sketch here both of them all
right here're going to come in and do an
offset I'm going to click on the circle
offset and then finish sketch okay I'm
going to bring that sketch back into
view and let's also look at the body
there we're going to select these two
circles and extrude so extrude click
both of these circles I'm going to go
inwards a distance of3 mm operation is
going to be new body and okay if I un
Tagle the top of body here I should see
I should just have this disc here I'm
click on that second Circle if we're
extrude again this time I'm going to
bring in body one and I also want to see
that SP here I do is extrude this
that second Circle E4 extrude again this
time I'm going to bring in uh body one
and I also want to see that spur gear
because what I want to do is extrude
this out and have it go past the gear
and here 20 mm looks good now I want to
have this be a join but I don't want it
to join
the back portion here of that base so
let's untoggle body one and I should
just have this here in fact it's not
going to go ahead and join into the spur
gear because that component is not
activated so I don't need to un Tagle
the visibility of it but we don't really
need to see it anymore I just want to
reference it now we can just go ahead
and un Tagle it and we should have
something like this I'm going to click
okay
and he wants to be a join but then you
you
undo oh wait
oh no he extruded it not as a
cut he did this yeah okay so let's
undo
uh ah what the hell
okay and then I just happened to know
it's minus 20 and then it's going to be
a join and then I didn't really know
that this is how this works
but so now if I do
okay
okay so that's pretty
cool and then I feel like oh yeah he
does offset face these but how does he
um so I can save this individual body as
a mesh okay so then I'll have four print
got the body there CU we're going to
select these in and I to have and I
should just have this here in fact it's
not go ahead and join into the SP but
and we let's sketch this body we've got
two bodies there they overlap each other
so to do that we're going to go to modif
here to cut out an opening for it on the
base so to do that we're going to go to
modify combin
okay oh wait did I select it the other
way I forget how our Target body is
going to yeah the target body is the
whole thing so let's cancel
that uh
combine Target
body here the tool body is the PIN
operation is cut and we want to make
sure our keepy tools is checked because
we want to keep our pin click okay and
now if I untangle the pin there you
should see we have the hole there and
the idea is to be able to just okay
nice so it'll just slot in
there okay so then what he does is he
disables this and he clicks
on this and this and he does q and is
minus point2 oh wait
okay so now if I inspect the distance
from
here to
here 13.1 I don't know if that's
accurate let me undo it oh yeah okay
wait so here uh
this it was
12.7 but then yeah
okay 13.1 so that should be
good snap the pin in there everything
looks pretty good here one final thing
we'll need to do is factor in how
everything is going to fit together and
so we're going to have to uh design a
little bit of clearance fit here and so
to do that uh
consider our rack sliding back and forth
here we're going to need to give it a
little spacing otherwise it's just going
to bind or probably won't even fit so
let's start with that I'm going to go
ahead and grab my offset face tool here
under the modify menu I'm going to click
this surface here on the back and on the
front so two opposite surface and I'm
going to go a distance of 0.2 mm now
this is something you may need to exp
enough for need a little more want to
put in here is on the open face I'm
going to select these two surface in
here and again we'll go to okay wait so
let's just instead of this let's just do
this and maybe it changes the selection
criteria it doesn't
though yeah that's so [__]
annoying okay
okay so we did that one now how are we
going to get this face I don't even get
it okay there we
go this is going to be minus. one as
well
okay modify offset face I'm going to
select these two surfaces here and I
want this one to be more of a friction
fit so I'm going to do
0.1 and click okay or enter and there we
have it now if I bring that body into
view I can see if I go here and zoom in
all right so I'm going to export all of
these guys and send off the print well I
need to go get the new hat I'll get the
new hat and then I'll send all this off
for um printing
and then I can add the motion stuff
because I've never done the motion
thing
for
for for
okay
so
um
okay just make a folder
man don't why it keeps exiting out of
there wait where is it oh
okay so
now this is this will be the first time
that
I where's the gear
weird oh wait this is called the
opinion okay so yeah so this
is I don't know
I can clear out supports from there if I
I don't know okay
this
needs this
thing this is fine as it is and then we
just need
pinion and this goes here okay now for
the Color
Picker I
want I want the moving stuff to be
this is
two this is
two this is going to be
one and this is this is going to be
one is it going to say I need um
well maybe we'll find
out it's going to take an hour it's kind
of annoying
man can
we whatever that's
fine um
I selected the colors though all right I
guess we'll see but why is it only
saying
this right see but I selected the
Matthew here from the mini wargaming
Forge and today I want to show you an
unboxing this is literally a [__]
video printing in multiple colors
literally doesn't go
into Studio at all
[Music]
so that's what that looks like you
change it to whatever you like and then
you can press on the color and change
the color so leave the black the way it
is we'll make this one a pink for
contrast this one can be orange and
we'll do gray over
here so there's are colors that we're
going to be using for this project now
you just bring in whatever part um STL
file that you want to
use use a calibration Cube here so it
gets imported entirely as your first
color and then from here you go into the
paint tool and so right now we're
painting with black tool typees Circle
you get your pen size section VI so
let's change to pink and so right now
we're just using a
circle let's go back to
prepare oh but I have to paint it no I
want the whole
thing that's kind of
stupid for
okay I'm guessing that that is
good what is this
thing what is
this it's weird
is it more efficient to just do
two oh there we go
okay but yeah but in actuality I
want I want
this or wait no I want it the other way
around but this okay so I need to
undo
okay all right
so I don't know what the hell that is
okay so this thing moves so I want it to
be white but then this
thing oh wait we need to
actually yeah so body one is
black this will be my first multi I
think it's going to add a lot of time to
the um
yeah see that doubles the amount of
time maybe it like doesn't have
awarenesses of awareness of its own
geometry where it can
like I don't
know let me let me let me new project
oh
L okay let's just
do these these
two and these are going to be
black um so we select both of
these okay so I guess it needs that
calibration Cube for the colors or some
weird thing but so if we slice this
plate let's see what it says 48
minutes um is this going to be annoying
to get off of here that's the
question I think it'll be all
right okay so let's print
this oh yeah and I forgot to say the
um the Hat do I have it I think I might
have left it up there the hat that goes
on the Sero fits but now it's
like way too
um loose the backlash is like really
high but yeah so the next thing I guess
is to take
this and instead of that build a little
Mount that allows
me yeah so we're going to have to change
this pretty significant
all right well let me print this cuz
then by the end of the stream
we'll okay even though we followed a
guide now we now we can do the now we
can do the
motion there should be a little Gap in
between there which is exactly what I
want so let's go ahead and activate the
top level of the component and bring
both all components into view and there
we have it here so if I zoom in here I
can see a little spacing between the
front and the back and of course the
space in between the pin there okay so
that's how we create this rack opinion
assembly with the spur G our rack and we
have our base I'm going to end it right
here in the next video I'll show you how
we can add motion to our components by
applying joints and also a motion link
so stay tuned for that video all right
if you have any questions or comments
leave them below also check out the
links below to my Fusion 360 resources
I've got courses a weekly live class
that I offer or if you simply want to
support me creating more contents like
this consider visiting my patreon page
and supporting my Channel all right guys
I will see you in a few there wait why
did I do
that hey guys Vladimir here with desktop
vad Welcome to our third and final
installment here in this series of of
modeling a rack and pinion assembly so
in the last two videos I showed how we
created all the parts you see here the
three different components creating a
spur gear and then using that to create
a rack here so in this uh final lesson
I'm going to show you how you can add
joints and motion links here to be able
to allow the Turning of the spur gear to
go ahead and move the rack back and
forth and uh put that relationship
together so right now as you can see I
have them as components so I can freely
move these and when you do that make
sure to always come back here and click
on the revert position to bring
everything back otherwise uh if you
click on capture position it's going to
go ahead and move that
location all right uh before we jump in
though there was one question I received
that I wanted to address and that was
from I'm going to say yeah usafa 1987 uh
good stuff I'm enjoying this series one
critique it wasn't obvious why you were
making the pin as a separate body I
assume it is to be able to 3D print the
bass without supports but if you
mentioned this reason I didn't hear it
okay that's actually a great point I
completely forgot to mention why I was
doing that what usafa is referring to is
if I untoggle the rack here in the spur
here you can see in my base component I
have that as two separate bodies the pin
uh and the rest of the base here he is
exactly correct it was in order to be
able to 3D print this and I'll show you
what I mean here let's jump into pra
slicer I send this to 3D print as one
piece um this is how well I got a few
options on how I can lay it out right
like if I print it like this then I have
to go ahead and enable supports to be
able to support the pin here which I
want to avoid right so let's say if I
turn it on its back like this then I
don't need supports for the PIN
but I will need supports on the bottom
here um you know maybe I've got another
option here where I can lay it on his
sides like this but then I need support
for the pin here um so I did try this
out and as far as my options were I
figured my best um orientation would be
like this and not do supports for the
pin but have it for this sort of
overhang here um and it worked okay but
the problem is that you know I would
then have to clean up supports um so let
me just show how that looks here um
supports everywhere and then if I slice
that so this right here all the supports
needed to be cleaned up and I was able
to pull it out and clean it up but the
problem is you didn't get a rough finish
over there then you know you do have to
do some additional work to try that's
the part part where you really don't
want it's just extra work and if you
don't get it perfectly right the rack
just doesn't move smooth forth
travels across and it's just you know
you create EXT friction there um so I
wanted to avoid that as well so what I
decided to do was then to just go ahead
and separate the two and print them in
separate pieces so if I click on the
model here I'm going to go ahead and
split to objects and here can see we
have the two different parts here so now
the pin can print perfectly fine like
this without supports and what I can do
with the rack is I can turn it and here
let's see I can either you know flip it
in this direction and that would print f
without supports or I can also um flip
it in this direction here and print that
fine without supports so that's the
reason oh bro am I dumb as [__] what did
I do all right hold
on nice it didn't actually start
printing
yet okay cool so let's go back
here you don't need supports for this
circle I guess
not that's pretty sweet actually so then
prepare
okay
okay decide to go ahead and split these
out if I can design my way out of
supports I will normally do that yeah um
that's usually my first option is just
to try to give a separate design to
different parts or add sometimes it only
takes like a fill or a chamfer um to be
able to get it to I love the like
mechanical design no free lunch theorem
type I would definitely recommend that
and that's what I did here all right
let's go back to Fusion now we'll
continue with this design here so what
we're going to do is add some joints and
since I modeled everything in place I
can go ahead and take advantage of my as
build joint so here you'll notice you've
got a joint option and then you've got
an as build joint option now the nice
thing about as build joints if you
design your components in place you can
just go with as build joints and it
makes the process a little bit more
simple so I'll simply click on as build
joint oh one thing you have to do uh
before and I always kind of for doesn't
have to go back and do it you have to
ground one of your components before you
start adding joints cuz you have to tell
Fusion which one is not moving and so
we're going to ground the base here cuz
that's the part that's going to be
staying still so I'm going to go here to
my components I'm going to grab the base
right click and go ground you'll see a
little red pin there okay so now I can't
move the base now I go back to assemble
as build joint I'm going to choose my
two components I'm going to choose my
spur gear and I want that joint around
this pin here of the base so it doesn't
matter where I click as long as I click
on that component and I'm going to
change my motion here to revolute cuz
that's the kind of joint that I want and
the third thing I need to do is to tell
it the the axis of rotation so here I'm
going to go and if you click you'll see
I can select you know either the circle
or the center point and it puts that
little flag right in the center if you
just like over your mouse it says select
the snap point to Define The Joint
origin I'll click there and now you can
see that the spur there starts spinning
around that pin can click you to preview
motion and I'll click okay that looks
good all right next we're going to go
back and add a slider joint to the rack
here so assemble Asel joint again same
thing I'm going to select my two
components I'm going to choose my rack
and then choose the base and I'm going
to go to motion and change it to slider
now with the slider what you have to do
then is tell it the um where you want it
to slide or give it the Edge you wanted
to slide about so here if I kind of
hover over an edge you'll see It'll show
I'm going to snap to that middle point
if again I like go the mouse it's a
select a snap point to Def The Joint
origin so I'm going to click right on
that edge right on that point where the
arrow kind of shows the direction and
now I've got that motion so there we
have it we have the rotational and the
translational here the slider perfect
but one thing we can see here is we are
defining some laws of physics uh so
let's go ahead and fix it so that they
interact with each other and to do that
we're going to go back to assemble and
we're going to select motion link now
the motion link um so if you just kind
of read there it says defines rotational
and transational relationship between
joint vies of Freedom select the joints
and specify the values okay the
important thing remember with motion
link is you set it between joints and
not between components if you try to
click on components nothing happens you
have to go to your browser here and tell
it which joints do you want to set the
relationship uh with so here we want a
relationship between the revolute the
spur gear here and the slider the rack
and you can see it happening there I'm
going to delete that for a second cuz it
remembered my last value there but um
usually you see something like this it's
just kind of spinning like crazy and
it's kind of hard to see what's
happening because it's going so fast but
if you look at this dialog box you see
you have your two different joints your
revolute and your slider and it's asking
you for every 360 here of your revolute
what is the distance that you want your
slider to travel and you can change this
uh funny how like unaware it is of what
it's modeling cuz it has to be generic
but it's like damn figure it out for me
math easier so for every 360 of this
spur gear how far do I want it to travel
well if you remember from our last
lesson and last video I did we kind of
figured that out Andes the circumference
circle you can go back and see the math
in my last video but here we just have
to type the formula for circumference
it's going to be the diameter time Pi
now we determined that our diameter was
48 mm so we just type that intimes Pi
which we can just write as capital P
capital I and then just click okay
okay now we can see that these perfectly
match up and you can tell if you kind of
just zoom in here you know how if you go
to the last gear that that's perfectly
lined up you know and then you kind of
go to the other side you can see that
you're still perfectly lined up you know
if there was any error there this all
right so let's do it and then we can
move on to the second
one
okay so shift J oh wait we need to
ground this thing base
ground pin
ground I guess got
changed pin space to
unsaved all right I'll do this shift
J oh wait hold on let's undo s this
let's
undo is this still
pinned if I do this
okay pin versus ground I think it's
going to be ground anyways now we want
shift J this thing and
what could opponents you selected are
rigidly
joined okay what if what if I try to
what if I try to change this
from to
pin cuz that seems like it what it
is bro what
at least they let make this selectable I
feel like so many error message even
bamboo it's like you can't even select
it um
okay maybe maybe you just don't need to
do that
anymore uh okay so if
I unpin wait is this oh oh somehow
somehow that got
that's
interesting wait did I just ruin
everything so wait but this we do want
to ground a parent and now we want to oh
cancel shift
J type
revolute oh no no no no
cool okay then we need to
do and then we can just click this
flag oh what how come I can't manipulate
this [__] thing all right then we
shift J again and we
select this bad
boy and we make it um SL
slider and we want it to slide in the
xaxis okay
cool okay did he set any of these
limits we don't need to go look at this
just say okay and then
now joints now what do we want we want
uh motion
link and then we want for this we want
the distance to be um
I think it
is I think it is correct so wait can
I how do you actually manipulate
them wait animate joint but how did he
he would start to travel and your gears
would start to interfere so perfect um
one thing I do want to show you let's go
back to that motion link here and edit
feature if you ever have it going the *
1 mm did I [__] that up or something
fast but if you look at this dialogue
box you see the circumference of that
pitch diameter circle you can go back
and see the math in my last video but
here we just have to type the formula
for circumference it's going to be the
diameter time Pi now we determined our
diameter was 48 mm so we just type that
in time Pi uh which we can just write
it's kind of funny that there's just
literally no physics engine in this
thing at all capital P capital I and
then just click
okay now we can see oh
what bro I want to I want to
[__]
what how come I can't move this thing
that these perfectly match
up and you can tell if you kind of just
zoom in here you know how if you go to
the last gear that that's perfectly
lined up you know you kind of go to the
other side you can see that you're still
perfectly like not on the front if there
wasn't any era there this would start to
travel and your gears would start to
interfere so that's pretty nice um one
thing I do want to show you let's go
back to that motion link here in edit
feature if you ever have it going the
opposite way uh like let me just click
that reverse button where you turn your
spur gear One Direction and the gear
goes the opposite direction you see here
it's not going in the correct direction
you just click that reverse button let's
go back here edit feature just uh you
either check or uncheck the reverse and
that'll fix that dude that's so cool he
just can click and drag the whole thing
oh wait I can't too
okay
nice all
right uh what the what the what the
Fick well we can just put it in
here oh
I'm so excited for this thing to
print wait I just got
to dude why do I always get these
faulty yeah I feel like the
notifications for the app are just kind
of
delayed all
right so
that's pretty
sweet um should I just move on to the
next one or should I make a a mount so
that it would be pretty cool to
uh you know what we should do that so
back
in
this
thing if
I go to this
okay so what I want to do is I want to
make a as built joint I
guess to the hat so shift
J I guess I don't have
a why don't I have as built
joint so this
thing component
two what's this whole
thing but I guess it's
this snap it's going to
be
[Music]
H so wait oh this is all one
body okay I'm going to try this thing
all over
again so here I want to do new
component call it
stepper and then in there I want to
insert not a
mesh insert
component but then I can only dude this
Cloud [__] is like actually
ridiculous insert
derive okay
wait
uh cuz I don't want it to be
the no not an elect RCS
bro is that really that's what they want
me to
do so in here I have
this
assets um
um
okay so once that upload is done I
guess what dude when is it going to
okay whatever I'm going to update it and
take like a little break to wait for it
to upload or
something see how long has this been
going
on two hours ah it took two hours to do
this Jesus
are you looking up are you asking
why do you want to baby
go I could shift shapes but I can't
deny we could put it all the rest just
for one
night dude why is it 9 minutes I don't I
just want the
song dude please don't copyright me I'm
just trying to share my love of
[Music]
Music Sunday
morning oh there it
isli the
[Music]
time and never really know what you're
thinking about and I know I'll never
really figure it all
experience ever does this confirm my
doubts convinced that I had really
feel
fny anyone to know look it's gone out
there some where I don't
know ever misses the snow and all these
thoughts I can't push out on my mind
like 100 100 Twisted ways I might
die it's kind of
slow these are things I don't need
anyone to
know for
okay so let's [__] lock
in action was kind of
slow these are things I don't need
anyone to
know that's actually crazy this thing is
I mean they spent the time to color the
wires that's pretty
nuts
h no it doesn't matter
cuz I never really know what you're
thinking
about okay let's [__] lock in
bro for
[Music]
ask
what the hell
[Music]
t
go
[Music]
what
m for
so I I extruded it I offset it by
2.15 so I do minus
two that should be pretty good
so now we need to take this face and I
bet we need
to yes now we extrude this by oh no we
extrude this by
13 no no
no
15 okay
okay so
now as built
joint all
wait no but this
what dude it's not
though it's not even ground
to as buil joint is so much
[Music]
better I don't know what this it why
don't I just delete this
but you know what I want to do okay so I
want to do this but then I want to go
back to this
extrude and make it uh 13 again and then
I want
to how do I move this thing
I don't get how to move these
bro how do I play it play the
motion yeah so this but this piece
doesn't
move also why is it so wobbly
the hell is up with
that so
okay so we actually need
to dude what some stuff about this
program is so [__] annoying okay
I wish it was just a play
[Music]
button okay so this thing is
actually what is that even mean
I literally have no idea what that means
access through cylinder cone
Taurus
okay see but I can only select a full
component but if I could select a
feature there's only one body but there
is a way to I wish I could like
extract
it assembly context what is
[Music]
that let's look it up
Sub sub assemblies
Now
sing is create joint for
and fusion wants us to put an origin for
this revolute someware so let's put that
in the middle here and that is looking
pretty good to me so click okay on that
and now we have this Le SC jointed to
the rest of our model the next part that
I want to add to this design are the
shaft callers that are going to hold
this lead screw in place now to keep the
file organized I want these to be sub
components of the lead screw so I'm
going to activate the lead screw
component first and then insert a
McMaster Car component to together then
we are going to look for a sha collar
and then we want a metric one of course
and I want a one piece design jointing
motor bracket probably what I want and
again for that we're going to create a
quick little helper sketch so I'm going
to create a sketch on here and create a
construction line so let's project
first and then create a line from the
center here to the center there and we
can hit e for
extrude and then here we have a little
bit of an issue that we have because we
started the sketch on this thing over
here uh so let's see what we want to do
here actually we just want to extrude
all of
it so we want to extrude this and next
how thick do we want this plate to be
well I think 10 mm will do that looks
about right to me people that are beasts
at this stuff let continue great the
next thing I want to do is create the
holes for the push rods to come through
so I'm going to create a sketch on this
surface over here and then make a circle
in the middle and let's give that a
diameter of 30 mm and I'm again going to
ice isolate this component here so I can
see what I'm doing this can be
construction
geometry and then I will draw a con
construction sketch where
actual component and press compute and
that what we get here is that we have
four push rods that are interfering with
um the bottom plate over here and we
also have the volume here that they're
interfering in highlighted and we also
use this tool before for example to
check the meshes in the gear tutorials
that I've done so this is a handy tool
to have but let's move on with modeling
at this point our Pusher plate
subassembly is still able to float
around like this so of course we now
want to Joint it and for that I'm going
to use an as build joint and it's going
to be a joint between this thrust plate
here and I'll take this vertical Rod
over here let's put the origin of that
joint over there and then we can click
okay and now we contract this thing up
and down but it can no longer float
around otherwise but one problem that we
do still have is that it can just float
straight through this thing here and
also at the bottom here so that's up
next to fix I first want to fix that
interference that we had here at the
bottom plate so I'm going to activate
this bottom plate component and create a
new sketch on the bottom surface of that
plate and then hit P for project
projects these push rods into my sketch
click okay and then I'm going to create
some and then I'm going to make those
all equal sized and that size is going
to be 6 mm and that will either give us
enough clearance so that we don't have
any rubbing or we can put a bushing in
there because the outer diameter of
bushing will be 6 mm in that case so we
can just uh EXT this up up to this top
surface over here and then we just have
to ensure under objects to cut that we
do not cut the push rod and click okay
and then we should no longer have any
interferences so in just have to ensure
under oh object oh I didn't yeah I've
never used that before the cut that we
do not cut the push rod and click okay
and then we should no longer have any
interferences so inspect interference on
the root component compute no
interference so now let's turn our
attention back to that slider joint over
here and the first way that we can fix
this slider joint going through other
components is by enabling contact sets
so under assemble I will enable contact
sets and then Ure that all bod's contact
is enabled and now I can push this thing
up and down but as it hits either B
enable is by enabling contact sets so on
assemble I will enable contact sets and
then ensure that all bodies contact is
enabled and now I can push this thing up
and down but either the bottom or the
top it will basically stop this isn't
completely perfect because if I
basically apply enough speed I guess I
can just phase through this wall over
here so Contex say can work okay don't
work that
great dude there's some like cringe
things to design like that is here first
because if you have an interference like
that a contact will basically bind up
your model entirely and finally contact
sets can also be quite difficult to
compute so with all of that they are not
a great solution but sometimes they are
the solution that you want so for this
model I'm going to disable the contact
sets I don't really find that as a great
solution here and I will go to the
slider joint and set that to zero and
then I'm going to add some limits to
this joint so the joint limits here are
going to be a minimum of zero and then
the maximum is going to be probably
something like 150 so we can animate
that it's going to be actually the
reverse in this caseus 150 to zero then
we see that we don't get all the way to
the bottom here so we can actually
cancel this for a minute and figure out
how far this needs to go so we can just
draag that down here and then we can
read here that this is actually- 150 so
that was almost correct so let's now
actually set those limits and the limits
here again are going to be a minimum and
a maximum with a minimum ofus 150 and a
maximum of zero and then if we animate
this dude this guy we see that we
basically we just drag this up and down
we see now that we have actual limits
that we can't pass through by just
applying enough speed that doesn't work
and also now the push rods are again
coming along again in the animations
doesn't always happen usually it doesn't
but once you click okay everything will
happen into place as expected the next
thing I want to do is ensure that the
rotation of the lead screw is to the
sliding of this push PL here so for that
I'm going to create a motion link going
to continue here I don't want to capture
this position and the joints that I want
to link
are that if we have a 360 rotation then
this thing
has and then the next
thing that we have the right direction
on the slider and the rotation so right
now it appears to be reverse because as
I'm turning the lead screw I actually
see the threads moving upwards from this
perspective and at the same time the
lead SC or The Pusher PL is actually
moving downwards so let's go back
into now the point is with the motor
component and that component is at the
shaft coupler that are going to couple
the motor shaft to the lead scre and for
that I'm again going to insert a
McMaster Car component and that
component is soing be a shaft
coupler shaft coupler and then it's
going to be for round shaft metric clamp
on and then this is a model that I do
like I don't intend to buy exactly this
one but it looks a lot like the that I
do look at these prices so let's go for
product detail that thing is $70 step
Again
download that is
insane dude I bet you can design some
crazy expensive stuff in
this and then what we're going to do is
create a joint between this guy over
here and the center of this shaft over
there and then we're just going to move
that up by let's say 10 mm click okay
and now we want to see whether that
actually fits any good uh so what we're
going to do now is go into the origin
here and then we are going to do a
section analysis on this vertical plane
over here click okay and now we can see
that the coupler is actually a little
bit too far above here so we're going to
go back into this joint over
here and move that down just a little
bit like so click okay maybe have a
little bit of less it's kind of
interesting because I would think you
want to get it as far oh but was it two
well yeah for this
one so click okay we could maybe have a
little bit of less space between put
that Gap there oh you know what that
actually does make sense cuz that's
where the flat part we can hide the
analysis here and the next thing we are
going to do is an as build joint between
the lead screw and this coupler here
that's going to be a rid joint click
okay and now we should see that when we
animate the model on this
guy that the motor is forced to turn
along with it and we can also do that
from the other perspective here so if we
animate the model here we see that dude
and that thing Rises that is so cool
okay but how do I get this thing to turn
on its
own I don't know if I can
is there a way to make
a Okay so
so you can okay to separate okay modify
split B oh okay cool modify split
body dirt
position okay so bodies to split
it's going to be this
body why can't I select
it oh wait is it CU I have this
what I don't know why I can't select
this thing is it
ah sometimes right click just does not
work on these [__]
things dude Fusion drives me [__] up
the wall
bro
okay and I never really know what
talking
okay okay
so break link what does that
mean unground from parent okay yeah we
should probably do
that okay
now okay wait I want to hide this thing
we going to select
okay so that is the whole
thing dude
I don't know why I can't select this
thing
[Music]
for for
for
bro I am hot and bothered by this thing
I don't know how this thing keeps moving
but I just can't click
anything I'm going to show you how to
split a body there are many reasons you
may need to do this sometimes you make a
form and you really want it to be two
pieces or maybe you needed it to be
different components or maybe there's a
cap that you want to have a lid on there
are multiple different reasons that you
want to split a body to do this let's go
ahead and make a body first we'll create
just a simple box we'll click on the
ground plane Click On the Origin we'll
pull out 50 tab 50 press enter and then
we go up 50 so this is just a box and
it's just a body not even a component so
let's split this body first if you go to
the modify split body it says we need a
body to split and we need splitting
tools well we could select this body but
then the splitting tools we don't have
any spitting tools you see if I click
this face it just wants to split it here
but I don't have anything so let's make
a splitting tool you can use another
body as a splitting tool so let's do
that let's create another box we'll
create it on the ground plane and we'll
just draw it here any size we want as
long as it intersects we'll press okay
now let's click modify split body the
body to split will still be this one now
when we click on splitting tools if I
click this tool notice it's going to
split it like a razor straight down the
middle if I click this splitting tool
it's going to split the body there so we
have lots of different options and if I
press okay now you can see I have two
bodies okay
I wonder if it has to be separate
wait wait wait yeah what dude I don't
know what the [__] is going
on for
a okay wait let me just try this totally
naively from a scratch so we're going to
make a circle yeah 30 sounds fine then
we're going to make a
line is it okay are they
coincident and I never really know what
you're thinking
okay so we're just going to take
this and we're going to offset
it yeah by want by
two then we're going to extrude this by
two then we're going to go under here
and we're going to just take
this oh wait d I probably did new body
or I mean I probably didn't do new
body
oops okay
H we have two
bodies wait hold
on I going to draw on this
face and then I want to
project this then I want to hide
this then I just want to extrude this
okay
now okay cool
and I never really know what you're
thinking
about Play It Again wait but this thing
needs to rotate
too okay so let's just
draw oh wait
[__]
oh you know what it is I get it okay
so assemble uh cancel assemble as built
joint select this and
this okay
and this is going to be re revolute and
if we disable this
guy okay
now H okay
um
where's the play button can I just get
this thing to
play all right and then motion
link they move it different
rates first off I don't even get how
that's
possible ah yeah yeah
I mean they literally are saying they're
moving at the same
rate dude this right clicking thing is
driving me up a wall why can't I right
click
them if I do that I can't select
anything this feels like a bug
[__] okay well I don't I don't know then
I don't know how to do
this that
sick
okay
for for
okay so this is the piece it doesn't
really comes out kind of too easily so
I'll put some glue in there or
something let's print the other parts
I have yet to see one of these time
lapses okay
what is next the next basic
mechanism is oh this one's going to be
hard I feel
like when rotary motion must be
transferred from one end of a shaft to
the other this is usually easy with a
long enough shaft but when the input and
output shafts are not perfectly aligned
or when the alignment can change during
use a universal joint can help a
universal joint joint or U joint
basically allows a shaft to rotate with
a bend in it which can change the angle
of the output axis as much as 90 in any
direction how [__] does that work the
new joint won't change the direction of
rotation speed or Torque but it is a
relatively inefficient mechanism and can
cause power loss between the input and
output shafts U joints are commonly
found on Drive axles of cars and trucks
which connect the spinning transmission
to the drive
axle this socket wrench set uses a
universal joint loosen bolts in hard to
reach positions where the wrench won't
fit straight
on
simple I don't get how it works though
hello everyone oh give me a this session
we are going to un four starting design
creating me draw
this make midpoint constrain to these
lines change the dimension of the line
mm and this line is 18 mm and this line
is 16 mm draw a line connecting 57 mm
line and 40 mm Circle trim The Unwanted
lines how do you how did they do that
trim The Unwanted lines
I have never ever use that that is so
useful extrude this profile 4 84
mm make the sketch visible
and extrude this profile having offset
length of 70 mm and extrude distance of
mm and operation as
join again extrud the same profile for
14 mm operation as
join hide the
sketch and create sketch in this
face draw a circle of 57
mm 30
mm and a rectangular of 7 mm and 8 mm
like this make this distance between
these two point as 42
mm and make horizontal vertical
constraint with these two
points and extrude this profile for 38
mm operation as
join hide the body and make the last
create sketch
visible and extrude this profile for 80
mm operation as new body
and extrude this profile for 60 mm
operation is
cut and extrude this key profile for 57
mm and operation as new
body make all the body visible hide the
sketch and create sketch in this space
hide all the bodies draw a circle of 32
mm and 16
mm and extrude this profile of 56 mm and
operation as new
body and create sketch in the front
plane and draw a circle of 32 mm and 16
mm make distance between these two
points as 18
mm and this line to this point is 28
mm 32 mm and 16
mm make distance between these two
points is 18
mm and this line to this point is 28
mm and extrude this profile having
symmetric Direction hold of 56 mm
operation is join select these two faces
and
delete make visible the body one create
sketch in this
face draw a circle of 16 mm and 25
mm and hide all the
bodies extrude this profile for 9 mm and
make visible the sketch extrude this
profile for - 96 mm operation as
join and extrude this profile having
offset length of- 84 mm and extrude
distance of- 10 mm operation as new body
hide the sketch and construct a plane
form front plane having distance of- 15
mm create sketch in the created plane
draw a circle of 4 mm and having a
distance between the circle and this
Center Point is 89 mm and make
horizontal vertical
constraint construct a plane form front
plane having distance of 15
mm this video is actually crazy
plane draw a circle of 3
mm and having a distance between the
circle and this Center Point is 89
mm and make horizontal vertical
constraint and using Loft comment select
this two profile and create Loft
and operation is
cut repeat the same procedure make
visible the
sketches and create Loft operations as
new body hide all the sketches make all
the body visible and rename those bodies
for
identification so if it's bent at 45
it's that interface there that that
really does it
isolate the shaft and create chamfer to
the
shaft un isolate the
shaft select all the bodies and convert
to
components using move copy comment
select the components expect send block
select create copy and move to the
opposite side rotate the components to
fit with the original components by
following these
steps go to modify and select a line
using this comment align the copi
components to the original component by
following these steps press right click
and drag up for redo
comment okay dude this is going to be a
hard
one maybe I'll do this one later because
this is a hard
build plus how do you make
it I saw one on thingy verse
sort of a different design but that that
that will
work is this an assembly structure what
the hell is this
oh acetone
really I didn't love all those those
anws
but
whatever okay what other ones can I
do simple gears use a rotary motion
input to create a rotary motion output
in a two gear setup the direction of
travel for the input will be opposite
for the output however adding an idler
gear can be used in the system to assure
the input and output are moving in the
same direction this will not affect
speed nor torque as all the Ider does is
change the direction of rotation to
increase the speed of an output a larger
gear would need to be used for the input
and a smaller one for the output this
also decreases torque if this is flipped
a smaller gear for the input and a
larger gear for the output okay so I
think I will torque incre try to
build this
I won't build that part
[Music]
okay was that like the new version that
opened
up can't believe I didn't get this
rotation thing
I
[Music]
nevering compound gears use multiple
gears on the same axis does a rotary
motion input and create a rotary motion
output the direction of travel for the
input will be opposite for the gear on
the next axle over but every h the other
axle has the same direction of
rotation to increase torque a smaller
gear on the first
okay
yeah there's one there
too there might be one there I don't
think there's one there though
it would be nice to have that railing
um
bro I
swear okay so let's just think about
what that that
is so if I were to build this out of 3D
printing just a housing
oh but you know what I could make
um yeah but you can't do self-tapping
with plastic like pla would just blunt
it's not going to do
anything I'm trying to think of a way to
get those spacers in there and use just
um oh you know what I could do I could
use normal
screws and then just have a diameter
slightly less so then then it self Taps
I I think I'll try that not a bad
idea but then I got to find some screws
that okay that that that's not a big
deal I don't know what you call this
truss what's the definition of
truss a
trust is an assembly of members such as
beams connected by
nodes
okay so I think it does qualify as a
trust all right so what what is the
basic
shape gosh this is going to take
me it's the same setup okay
so all right so oh [__] so let's go back
this probably the best picture of it
let's just start I don't give a [__]
okay
so so the first
thing there seems like there's an L
here or it's really like a um like half
of an eye so it looks like it's like
this
what is
that oh oh that's
annoying so the first part sort of looks
like
this and that's just
oh yeah okay
then there's like a
guy
here and a
here or actually it's on the other side
and it's actually an l
and it's an
L that way so it's
actually dude why is it delete key bet
dude there's so many UI things I hate
about this
program okay so it's actually like
this um
[__]
maybe it's over engineered to do that
maybe I should just build another wall
with pins in
it I do want a handle though a handle
would be
nice for
[Music]
okay well let's just say we extrude this
up by um five that's not enough 10
why is it red
all right you know
what I'm just going to commit and we're
going to build
this I don't care if it takes a lot of
filament I feel like the trust is the
hard part actually
so yes it's going to be like
this and
then I wonder if you can 3D print these
little
things what are they
called for
I wonder if you can 3D print shaft
collars you probably
can for
[Music]
okay I don't think I
need let's
see it would be
nice to have all those holes I
guess but what is the simplest trust
that I could build
because I'm going to need to print a lot
of
screws I mean damn this thing is over
engineered
I mean those must be
like four or 5
mm probably
four for
bro my
God okay so maybe I'll just build
I'll build it weak so instead of really
modeling out every
part we could
have what this is probably going to be
God already that's a lot of
material then I don't know
we could build a part that's
like it's like this where it's like
um
uh [__] I don't want that
so
then you fit it
between well
um I should have made this
okay so then if we have something going
across we can just draw a rectangle
wait what we can do
is oh that's
annoying oh yeah but I get it okay
no I don't really care
but what else needs to
be yeah that's fine
okay I don't I don't really
care so we extrude these by what was it
100 so now we'll draw a sketch on there
I could just build it as a big
U no but the problem with that is then
you don't have the beams for like the
actual gear
compounding like you do want some space
horizontally
okay well let's just go with
that but these are all part of one body
but the idea
was the idea is really um
I forget do I have it nuts and bolts
maybe okay
yeah so I wonder if I can
just use these parts
okay I'm going to get some food actually
how long is this thing it's probably
still at 20 minutes 7
minutes
for
for for
[Music]
oh
for
for for
okay
oh wait this is supposed to go the other
way
okay bro I want to watch this guy go in
from the
beginning hi everyone today's video is
for people who have figured out how to
make moderately complex Parts in Fusion
360 but who are struggling with
assemblies and I find that this is also
common among people who are coming from
other cat systems because Fusion 360
does do a few things a bit differently
in this video I want to show you how to
model this thing right here this is the
pump module from the polyant project it
uses a stepper motor up here to turn
this lead screw and as that lead screw
is rotated this plate here move
hi in today's video I would like to talk
to you about gears now I have quite a
lot of material I wish to cover so this
will be a multiart series in today's
part I would like to show you how you
can design a basic involute spur gear
and I want to focus especially on some
of the techniques that you can use to
attach 3D printed gears to your shafts
the current plan is that in the next
part I will talk about the uh parameters
and the numbers related to gears uh for
example what is a pitch diameter what is
a diametral pitch what is a module and
what number should I select for the
various parameters for the gears that I
need for my application in another video
I want to talk about how you can model
these helic and Herring bone gears and
what are the advantages and
disadvantages of these gears compared to
regular skur gears and then finally I
wish to discuss how you can design racks
including helical racks and ring gears
including helical ring gears so with
that let's hop into Fusion 360 and let's
get to designing this
gear I've now opened up Fusion 360 and
the first thing I will do is make the
basic SP gear shape and to do that we'll
go to tools and under addins here you go
to scripts and addin and then this
dialog pops up with a bunch of scripts
that are already installed and if you
scroll all the way down you will find
two instances of the spur gear script as
far as I know it doesn't matter which
one you pick so you can just click run
and for a bunch of parameters for your
gear um I will explain what all these
parameters mean in the later video for
now I will just pick a few parameters
that will make sense later for the
module I will go for 2 and a half uh and
I will design a metric Gear with a
pressure angle of 20 number of teeth 20
backlash I will leave at zero for now a
root fil radius of a half mm I want my
gear to be 20 mm thick and I prefer to
make the hole myself later on you will
see why that is at that time uh so I
will put the whole diameter to zero uh
so that no hole is yeah okay the Bottom
now you can see that it gives a pitch
diameter of 50 mm I was thinking
like oh whatever like you should be able
to give a
dxf or you should be able to specify
custom geometry in there I guess you
just do it later this number and this
name will become important in the next
video so keep that in mind uh with all
this entered you can press okay and then
we get a new component and this
component is now our spur gear what I'd
like to do now is design the mounting
hub for this gear and to do that I will
first activate the new component that we
just got and then I will go to solid
create sketch and then click on the top
surface of this gear I then hit C on the
keyboard for Circle and then from the
origin I drag out a circle and let's say
we make it 30 mm but I am going to 3D
print this gear and I want this mounting
Hub to be as strong as it can be so
instead of giving it a fixed Dimension I
will just delete this what I will do
instead is Select this inner little Edge
right here on the inside of the gear
teeth and hitting control I also select
the circle that we just made and to
those two edges I apply the equals
and this now makes the mounting Hub as
large as it can be without interfering
with the gear teeth so I finish sketch I
hit e for extrude and then I will
extrude this 20 mm
upward bro this guy is so
good the way he does it
an ANS dude he's
[__] he just does it for that I will
sketch on the top surface of the
mounting Hub hit C for Circle and then
from the origin I draw a circle of 8.2
mm in my case I want to mount this gear
on a motor and that motor has a shaft
diameter of 8 mm I also know that my
printer tends to print holes that are
slightly smaller than they need to be
and so to compensate for this I make the
holes just a little bit larger in Fusion
360 hit enter on this finish the sketch
then hit e for extrude and then you
could extrude this downwards to the
exact length that you need for the shaft
length of your motor but you can also go
the lazy way and just extend it all the
way and then press okay and now we have
a hole for our gear the next thing I
would like to do is make a cavity for a
nut to go into so I create another
sketch on the top surface of the
mounting Hub and then I hit R for
rectangle I track that out and then I
hit D for Dimension and I will give this
a dimension of 5 mm plus a little bit of
play and 10 mm plus a little bit of play
and these are the height and the
distance between Flats of an M6 nut next
I hit X for construction geometry and L
for line and from the origin I will drag
out a horizontal line with a distance of
5 mm and finally what I'll do is I will
select this line of this rectangle and I
will select this point holding down
control and then to those two objects I
apply the midpoint constraint and then I
can finish the sketch I now this point
holding down control and rectangle and
finally what I'll do is I will select
this line of this rectangle and I will
select this point
holding
e
e e
control and then to those two objects I
apply the midpoint strength and then I
can finish the sketch I now hit e for
extrude and I drag down this profile by
10 mm um if you want to make it a little
bit more parametric what you can also do
is construct a mid plane between the top
of the mounting Hub and the start of the
gear teeth and then extrude up to that
mid plane I'll leave that up to you the
next thing I want to do is create a hole
for the set screw to go into so I will
now select this surface right here
create a new sketch I hit C for Circle
and then I will drag my cursor along
this line until we see this little
equilateral triangle up here uh this is
an automat midpoint constraint which I
do want here so I click and I drag that
out and I type in 6.2 mm that is more
than enough to fit an M6 set screw uh
finish the sketch hit e for extrude and
click both of these profiles um and I
want to extrude this in two directions
so under Direction I go for two sides
and then on the one side I simply want
to extrude it all the way and on the
other side I want to extrude it 5 mm
which is exactly the same as the 5 mm
that we had on the length of the
construction line before uh this
extrudes it to exactly the center of the
shaft hole what you can also do again if
you want to be a little bit more
parametric is instead of a fixed
distance you extrude to an object and
then you extrude to this plane here and
then click okay and then we have a hole
for our set screw to go into the final
thing that we will need is uh a little
bit of a pocket for the nut to go
into and for that I again click this
surface over here create a new sketch
and what I will do now is under create
polygon take a circumscribed polygon and
then you want to look around here until
you get this uh concentric constraint on
the circle that we made before uh so I
click and just drag this out um the
dimension that you get here doesn't
matter but you must here have a
six-sided polygon you must have a
hexagon for a nut uh so I just uh enter
that and what I will do now is remove
this Dimension that I do not want um I
will select this point here in the
corner and I will select this Edge over
here and I will give that a midpoint
constraint and then I finish the sketch
I hit e for extrude I select this uh
profile right here I drag that out in
this direction and then I want to take
as an extent to an object which is going
to be this surface over here and so that
makes the bottom of the cavity hexagonal
and with the exact same dimensions
otherwise uh as the pocket that we
already created uh so click okay and
then we have all the features we need we
have a hole for our shaft we have a hole
for our set screw to go into and we have
a cavity for the nut that will accept
the set screw one final thing that I'd
like to show you is how you can export
this gear as an sdl so you can 3D print
it there are two ways to do this but one
way is pretty terrible the terrible way
is to first save your gear so let's call
it video gear and then once it is saved
you can go to file export and then if
you scroll down a little bit on the file
type you can export it as an sdl and
then you get this Cloud translation
which may take a few minutes and all
that good stuff uh so we export it and
then we have to wait for this to finish
this is the terrible way the better way
to do it is to Simply go under Tools
under make and then 3D print and then in
this dialogue I prefer not to send it
through to a 3D print utility uh the
reason for that is every time you do
that a new instance of cura is opened
and that leads to a lot of instances of
cura at some point um and then I select
the component I wish to 3D print you can
also select bodies if you prefer and
then I hit okay and then I can just save
this uh the file name is already set to
the name of the component um I can save
it and then it's immediately done and if
we go to our job status uh we see that
this exporting via Cloud translation
still
going I have now opened the gear in Cura
and there are two things here that I
wish to show you first with the
orientation of the gear like this with a
mounting Hub on top and the teeth at the
bottom I can ensure that this entire
gear can be printed well without the
requirement for any support second I
have chosen to use four perimeters here
and what this allows us to do in the
case of this Gear with these size teeth
is that the gear teeth consists nearly
entirely of perimeters and this gives a
maximum amount of strength to the Gear
teeth if you have larger gear teeth
meaning that the module of your gear is
larger you may need to increase the wall
line count or alternatively you have to
print with fatter lines so the
line e
pain width has to go up and possibly
your nozzle diameter has to go up as
well I would now like to show you how
you can put this gear on a shaft so we
take the gear and we take care to align
the whole of the set screw with the flat
part of the D shaft and with alignment
insured we push the gear over the shaft
and then we take an allen wrench and a
set
screw like this and then we simply Drive
the set screw into the
hole and with that if we turn the gear
we notice that the motor also speaks so
the gear is now rigidly attached to the
shaft I would now like to show you how
you can design basically the same gear
but without a mounting Hub which makes
it a little bit more compact so I make a
new design and then I go back into the
gear
generator and then I add the same
parameters that I used before so a
module of 2 and half 20 teeth a half 20
and zero and there we have the same gear
as before I activate this component and
I create a sketch on the top surface and
then I create the same Circle as I did
before of 8.2 mm to go over the shaft
finish the sketch hit e for extrude and
then extrude this all the way down again
again because I'm lazy I don't want to
match it to the shaft length of the
motor and then uh we get to a little bit
of a different part so again we create a
sketch on the top surface and what I
want to do is create the pocket now for
the nut to go into um so I hit X for
construction geometry and L for line and
I drag out a horizontal line here the
length doesn't matter then I create a
second line from the origin and I want
to give that a length of 5 mm
and then I want to specify the angle
between this horizontal line and this
new line that I drew here so I press
select them both and press D and then
the angle that I want here is 360
divided by the number of teeth and that
entire thing divided by
two and the reason I select this
particular angle and the reason I'm
doing this in the first place is because
I want the hole for the set screw to end
up where the gear teeth are not so I
want it to land right in the middle of
this section here so that it affects
minimally the strength of the gear teeth
so now I create a rectangle but if I
create a rectangle the normal way then I
get these automatic horizontal and
vertical constraints so that doesn't
work so contrl Z to get rid of it and
what I'll do instead is just draw four
lines and what I'll do now is add the
perpendicular constraint three times to
three pairs of
lines and then I give it the dimensions
as before so this will be 10.2 and this
will be 5.2 and then as before again
this line has to be on the midpoint of
this point so select them both and then
midpoint constraint and then the final
thing that we need to do is Select this
angled line here and the top end of this
cavity that we're about to make and make
those
parallel then we can finish the sketch
and then the same as before extrude it
downwards by 10
mm from here everything is basically the
same as before so we create a new sketch
on this inner surface here I hit C for
Circle and I look for this midpoint
constraint I make it 6.2 mm finish the
sketch e for extrude um again two sides
and on the one side I will go for
all look for this midpoint constraint I
make it 6.2 mm finish the sketch E for
extrude um again two sides and on the
one side I will go for all and on the
other side I will go for 5 mm and now
the point of what we've been doing so
far if I just click okay is that most of
the hole that we've made for the set
screw does not dig into the teeth of the
gear and if you did it the other way
then the uh hole for the set screw would
dig right through this tooth over here
and that tooth would then become quite
weak compared to the other ones and
would be prone to breaking um so the
final thing as before create a sketch
here we create a polygon a circumscribed
polygon again look for this concentric
constraint to make sure it is a
six-sided polygon and then take this
corner Point here this line here give it
a midpoint constraint e for extrude and
then this profile you go up to this face
cut it out and then we have basically
the same idea but this gear is much more
compact than the previous one one thing
that I neglected to show you before is
how you can insert the nuts into the
pocket now if the fit is quite loose as
in this case then it'll simply drop in
but you honestly want the fit to be a
little bit tighter than this if the fit
is a little tighter what you can do is
put the nut inside a pair of combination
pliers if you have a pair of parallel
pliers that would be better and then
leave a little bit of the flats sticking
out of the jaw you can then keep the nut
upright as you insert it into the hole
finally if you need to drive the nut
home to the bottom of the pocket what
you can do is grab a screwdriver and
just tap it home with a hammer and then
that way you can ensure that the nut
goes all the way to the bottom of the
pocket you will damage your screwdriver
a little bit but this is a 2-year old
screwdriver so see if I care
this method of attaching the gear to the
shaft using only a single set screw does
suffer from two downsides first is that
there is a lot of force on the nut and
that force is transmitted into the
plastic and because the surface area of
the nut is rather small this creates a
very large amount of stress in the
material in the plastic and as I shown
in my previous video pla especially is
susceptible to a phenomenon called creep
and this will cause the set screw to
come undone over time another problem is
because we have only one set screw and
we are only pushing into the gear from
one side we induce a slight asymmetry
I have hooked up the motor now to a
power supply and I will turn on the
power supply and you can notice that the
gear will wobble it will not run
through let's now modify the design of
this gear to address the
to address the problems I have brought
up up first I will add a cavity for a
washer to reduce the stress in the
plastic and thereby reduce the creep
that the plastic will experience so I
will create a new sketch and then put
that on this face over here hit C for
Circle and then look for this concentric
constraint and then I will give that
20.2 mm this is for 20 mm washers and
then I give it a little bit of extra
space to ensure that I can push them in
later finish the sketch hit e for
extrude I will select both of the
profiles and then I will drag that out
by 1 and a half millimet uh this is a
little bit more than the thickness of my
washers
the next thing I will do is create a
sketch on the top surface of the gear
and then I will hit P for project and I
will project that circular cavity I just
made into my sketch and then on The View
Cube I hit top so I can get back into
the correct view I hit L for line and I
connect these two lines over here so
that I can get a complete profile I
finish the sketch I hit e for extrude
and I select these two profiles over
here and I drag them down and I will
drag them to an object and that object
will be this circle over here and then
click okay and now I have a nice cavity
for the washer to go into the final
thing I wish to do is mirror all of
these features to the other side of the
hole to balance out the forces and to
prevent the concentricity error I talked
about before to do that I will go to
create mirror and then the pattern type
will be features and the feature I want
to mirror is both the washer features
and this pocket feature and the hole and
also this feature over here and then the
mirror plane will be this plane over
here and so now every
plane will be this plane over here and
so now everything is being mirrored to
the other side I click okay and then I
do indeed get everything twice I have
two cavities for nuts I have two
cavities for the washers and now if I
look at it from this angle I have one
hole going straight through the gear uh
so now I can add two set screws uh to
balance out the forces that this gear
will experience and thereby prevent the
concentricity
error I have now mounted this new design
to the motor as you can see if I give
this a half turn you can see the set
screw on either side and I'll will now
turn on the power supply to show you the
concentricity
error so to my eye the concentricity
does seem to be improved but as you can
clearly see it is still not perfect and
I think the reason for this is that the
X Gantry of my 3D printer which is a
cr20 is sagging slightly because the
lead screw to support it is on only one
side of the machine the other side is
essentially free floating and so that
side sags down ever so slightly which
causes the axes to no longer be
perfectly perp ular in particular this
means that the shaft hole that we drill
here or that we print rather is not
completely perpendicular to the
faces I would now like to show you a
different way of attaching a gear to a
shaft this gear has a hole all the way
through the mounting Hub and on the
other side we find a nut which will
accept this screw and what we'll do now
is put the shaft through the gear and
then we have to line up the hole in the
shaft with the hole in the gear now this
is a little bit tricky to
find but if you can of find it directly
you can use the pliers to give yourself
a little bit more leverage
and once it's lined up you can insert
the screw and push it to the other
side and then once it engages with the
nut on the other side you can use an
allen wrench to tie the screw into the
nut and then we have our finished result
the benefit of using this technique is
that you can transfer an enormous amount
of torque through this system uh there
is no way for this mechanism to come
loose uh due to a simple deformation for
this mechanism to fail something has to
break either the shaft or the screw or
the gear itself has to break into two
pieces or otherwise this mechanism will
stay
intact we're now back in Fusion 360 and
I've already designed some features of
the gear so the teeth are already there
I've already made the mounting Hub and
I've already made the hole for the shaft
in this case the hole for the shaft is
10.2 mm because I want to mount this
gear on a 10 mm shaft what I'll do now
is create sketch and hit one of these
vertical planes I hit P for project and
I project this part into my sketch I hit
X for construction geometry and L for
line and I go from this midpoint here
upwards to this midpoint over here I
want a line going straight up uh I
disable construction geometry and hit C
for Circle and I look for the midpoint
of the line that I just made and I give
that a diameter of 4.2 mm because I want
to put an M4 screw through it later on I
finish the sketch I hit e for extrude I
go to two sides and then on both sides I
will select the extend
all and then it bugs out it unselects
the profile so just select it again and
then press okay so now I have a hole
through the mounting Hub of my gear
I'd now like to add a small cavity for
an M4 nut to seat into to do that I will
first construct a tangent plane and the
plane will be tangent to the mounting
Hub and for the reference plane I will
unhide the origin of the gear and then I
will select this plane and this will
ensure that the plane I am constructing
is perpendicular to the hole then I
create a sketch on this new plane and as
before I hit P for project to project
the gear into my sketch and as before I
can't really select a an automatic
concentric constraint here so again I
press x for construction geometry and L
for line and I draw a line like this and
now what I want to do is go to create
polygon circumscribed polygon and then
from the midpoint I draw out a polygon
like this again six-sided the distance
between Flats now is 7 mm you want this
to be quite tight you can uh Force the
nut in uh and then it will stay there
due to friction and then to constrain it
fully uh we select one of these edges
and give it a vertical constraint we
finish the sketch we hit e for extrude
and then we extrude this inward by about
5 mm
what I'd like to do now is make a pocket
for the head of the screw to fit into to
do this I create another tangent plane
tangent to our mounting Hub and then the
reference plane will be this plane that
we made before and for the angle I will
give it 180 so it ends up exactly at
the opposite end of the mounting Hub now
we create a sketch onto this new plane
um hit P for project and now I want to
be a little bit more careful with what I
select for projecting so I'll select
this line up here and this little line
down here and the reason for that is
that otherwise I get too many profiles
that are available for extruding and
then I have to go through the effort of
selecting the right ones so hit okay and
then on The View Cube I just hit left so
I can get a better view again uh X and L
for a construction line and draw that up
like this then disable construction C
for Circle and I'll make this circle 7
and 1 12 mm thick um because it's better
if the screw fits quite Loosely in here
this doesn't need to be tight then hit e
for extrude and then extrude the entire
thing 6 mm down because the head of the
screw is a little bit thicker than a nut
hit enter and there we
go one of the difficulties in using this
technique is that you must drill a hole
through the shaft that is Central on the
shaft it must not be off center because
then the alignment won't work and this
is more difficult than it seems because
as you try to press the drill bit into
the steel if you are off center ever so
slightly the drill bit will tend to
wander off that way or the other way and
so getting this hole nice and centered
is quite tricky indeed for this I have
designed a special jig and this jig
consists of a lower and an upper part
and then on the bottom end here we have
some nuts which we will use layer for
clapping and then we just add the steel
shaft in this little Channel and then we
put the top half on top and then we can
simply use some bolts to close up The
Jig I've now closed up The Jig so we
have the bolt heads on top with the nuts
here on the bottom and in the center now
we have the shaft and on the top end
here we have a small little hole which
will guide the drill into the shaft so
we can now put this on the vice and
close it
up and now we can start
[Music]
drilling so I now try to locate the hole
with the drill bit and then push it down
and now the jig will guide the drill bit
Center on the
[Music]
Sha so we now have a completed hole but
there is now a little downside to The
Jig and that is that the chips that have
been evacuated by the drill bit upwards
Into The Jig have now enlarged this hole
substantially and so now the top half of
this jig is not really usable anymore so
here's a previous one that I used before
and you can see this one is also not
usable anymore but now let's open up the
jig and I'll show you the
result so I've removed the bolts and
here we have our result uh you can see
that the hole is nice and centered on
the shaft though you should note that
because I was slightly careless the two
holes now that are in the shaft are not
exactly parallel nevertheless both of
these holes should work for mounting
this gear so let's give this a try
and I will grab my
wrch my pliers
rather put this in the right position
and now I should be able to ramp the
screw in
there grab the Alum
wrench and you can tighten this
down you may have noticed over the past
few shots that the screw of this gear is
a little bit too long but I would like
to point out that the reason for this is
because the screw scw has a piece of
smooth shank and it is this smooth shank
that is in contact with the shaft and
this ensures a higher amount of strength
and also provides a little bit less
backlash but what I want to do now is
cut this screw off to the correct length
and for that there is another special
trick so I will make a mark where I want
to cut the screw off and then I'll go
cut it so I've put the screw in the
visce now and you can see the cut Mark
right here that I want to make and on
the other end of the cut Mark I've
inserted three nuts and the reason for
that will become apparent in just a
second so now I've cut off the bit of
the screw that I do not do not want and
if I open up the visce and you look
closely at the thread you can see that
it is slightly damaged and the nuts now
will act as a sort of um D to reform the
thread into what that needs to be so
this basically undamaged the thread by
unscrewing these
nuts and it gets easier for the third
nut than it was for the
first I'm not completely happy yet with
this screw because there's a slight
sharp Burr here that I want to remove so
I've put two nuts again on the threaded
section and I can just take a file and
get rid of that little Nubble that I do
not
want so that's smooth now and then I can
take the screw out of the visce again
and again threading the nuts back over
the piece of threat that I just damaged
this doesn't
work so I will need to use my pliers
instead I'm aoke of course I'm not going
to use my pliers I'm going to use my
vice now this should fit nicely into our
gear
so here we have our gear put the screw
in like this take a wrench and we can
turn it
in and now we have everything we want
the screw is no longer proud of the
mounting
Hub the head of the screw is also nicely
inside the mounting Hub and here we see
again that the smooth shank is in
contact with with the shaft and this
again ensures the maximum amount of
allowable torque and also reduces the
amount of
backlash I hope you found that
interesting and informative in the next
video we'll be taking look at what
parameters you need to select for your
gears and one example we'll cover is
this Archimedes screw pump now in
today's video we've designed this gear
over here but the action of the pump is
done with this shaft down here and what
we want to do now is connect this shaft
to this motor via two gears over here so
we need to design the matching gear for
this gear that we already have I'd like
to thank you very much for watching
don't forget to hit one of those buttons
on your way out and have a great night
hi in today's video I would like to
cover two topics that I couldn't quite
cover in my last video I would like to
show you how you can model compound
gears and I would like to show you how
you can add chamfers to the teeth of
your
gears I have opened up a new file and
I've already created the first gear I
will now go back into the gear generator
and generate the second gear this gear
will have many fewer teeth than the
first gear and for demonstration
purposes I will also make it slightly
thicker than the previous gear and then
we press okay and then our second gear
shows up now that we have two gears we
must combine them into becoming a single
gear so first we go to solid modify move
copy and what we will move is a
component and in particular it will be
this smaller gear and then we move that
up by 20 mm which is exactly the same as
the thickness of the bottom gear next we
go to modify combine we capture the
position and the target body will be the
lower gear and the tool body will be the
upper gear and the operation will be
join so click okay on this and now if we
look inside of our components we see
that one component has one body in it
which is our body or complete compound
gear and the other component only has
the origin and a few of the sketches so
this component is no longer necessary so
we can remove it there is one unique
aspect of compound gears that I would
like to discuss most gears need to be
fixed rigidly to their shafts because
they need to be able to transmit torque
into or out of that shaft compound gears
do not need to do this and so these must
be mounted in a way that they can rotate
freely with minimal wear and friction
this is most commonly done by mounting
the gear to a shaft and then having that
shaft rotate between two bearings but
I'd like to show you a different
technique and in this case the shaft is
held stationary and the gear will rotate
around the shaft supported by two
bearings that are mounted inside of the
gear so we create a sketch on the top
face of the gear and we will drag out a
hole of 22 mm plus a little bit of space
and this is for a 68 bearing now you can
of course use whatever bearing you like
but I'll just take 608 for now I hit e
for extrude and I pocket this down 7 and
half mm um it's 7 mm thickness for a 608
bearing and I give it a little bit of
extra space to ensure that the bearing
is not proud of the face of the gear so
we hit okay and now we want a similar
pocket on the other end of the gear so
that we can have a bearing there too so
we construct a mid plane and we select
the two gear faces and then we go to
create mirror and then we mirror a
feature which will be this pocket and we
mirror that around the plane that we
just created and we press okay and then
we have another pocket for another
bearing the final thing we'll do is
there too so we construct the mid plane
and we select the two gear faces the
plane that we just created and we press
okay and then we have another pocket for
another bearing the final thing we'll do
is create a hole for the shaft to go
through now we only want the shaft to
touch the bearings but not actually the
gear itself so this shaft actually needs
to be a little bit larger than the shaft
to ensure that there is no contact so
the six8 bearing is meant for an 8 mm
shaft so I will make this whole 10 mm to
ensure that is no contact finish the
sketch hit e for extrude put that all
the way hit okay and there we have a
finished
gear the advantage to this technique is
that you no longer need to create space
for the bearings inside the housing of
your gear train and this allows you to
make the housing a little bit more
compact the downside is that instead of
the inner race the outer rise of the
bearing is now rotating and this causes
the RPM limit of the bearing to be a
little bit lower than the specifications
would imply however usually I don't get
anywhere near the RPM limit for a
bearing anyway I now like to show you
two different techniques for adding a
chamfer to the teeth of your gear for
the first technique I've already created
the gear in a generator of course we'll
start with a sketch on this vertical
plane and first I project the top and
bottom surfaces of the gear into my
sketch using p for project and then I
draw a construction line going from the
origin upward and I'm looking for this
perpendicular constraint and then from
the middle of this new line I draw a
horizontal line going straight out and
the length of that line doesn't matter
next using regular geometry I draw a
triangle like this and I'll just give
this some
Dimensions now I don't want the chamfer
just on the top face of the gear I also
want it down here on the bottom so to
achieve this I will go for a mirror and
select this triangle and the mirror line
will be this line that we made before
and then we press okay and now these two
triangles can still move around so what
I'll do first is Select this top Edge
and select this projected line and make
these collinear and now the only degree
of Freedom we have left is this side to
side motion so one thing you could do is
make this point coincident with this
point but if you zoom in real deep on
this area over here you see that there
are in fact two points very close to
each other so you run the risk that you
would select the wrong one so another
way to do it is to select this Edge over
here and this central line that we drew
before and set the distance between
those now what must that distance be
well it'll be the module which is 2 *
the number of teeth plus two and that
gives you the outer diameter of a gear
but we don't want the outer diameter we
want the outer radius so we divide the
thing by two and then the triangles are
at the correct spot now we can finish
the sketch and then we go for revolve
and then the profiles will be both of
these triangles and the axis can either
be the Z Axis or this construction line
that we made before and then we hit okay
and then we have a chamfer that is a lot
like the chamfer that a machinist would
make into a gear using his lathe I've
now added a second gear to the design so
I can show you the other technique and
for this we simply go to the chamfer
tool and then we rotate our camera
around a little bit like this so we can
draw a box that selects all the top
edges of the gear and then we do the
same thing to select all the bottom
edges of the gear so we now have 100
edges selected and we enter a distance
let's say of 1 mm and this takes a
little while to compute because it's
quite a difficult geometry for Fusion
360 we hit okay we wait again for a
little
while and there is the second chamfer
complete now why would you want to add a
chamfer to the teeth of your gear in the
first place and I can think of four
reasons first if I delete this chamfer
on this gear and we imagine that these
gears are made out of hard and steel
then this area over here near the corner
of the teeth has a tendency to chip off
and one of the ways to prevent that is
to preemptive remove the material
basically by adding this chamfer and a
harden steel chip inside your gear train
will reduce its life very quickly the
second reason is that if you try to push
these gears into mesh these chamfers
will help the two gears find each other
so that they will go into mesh third if
you use the technique on the right here
uh the chamfer counteracts the effect of
elephants footing in your 3D printer so
if your printer suffers from a little
bit of elephants footing then these
edges over here being a little bit too
wide will cause the mesh of the gears to
be quite a bit worse and you can
counteract that by adding the chamfer
that you can see on this gear and
finally as this aloni teaches us the
chamfer makes the gear look a little
nicer and you can charge more for parts
that look nicer I hope you found that
interesting and informative thank you
very much for watching and have a great
day hi in today's video I would like to
discuss some of the parameters and some
of the basic mathematics involving Spur
Gears I would first like to start with
the absolute minimum requirements that
you must meet for two gears to mesh in
the first
place
e
e e
if you find yourself repeatedly
performing the same sequence of actions
in Fusion I want to tell you about a
plugin that I use called any macro any
macro allows you to record a sequence of
up to 10 actions and then play them back
at any time via a custom button placed
on your toolbar one example of how I use
any macro is to create a simplified
primitive as a bounding box of my
original part body and I'll show you how
I do that right now okay so with the
part file open I'm going to head to the
utilities Tab and I have a button that
says any macro when I press this it will
begin recording all of my actions so in
this case I'll copy this body I'm going
to turn this body into a simplified
primitive I going to set the opacity of
this primitive to 25% and the last thing
I want to do is create a rigid group
between both of those objects and we're
done so I'll head back to the utilities
Tab and stop that macro now if I click
on the drop down and look at macro
recorder you can see all the actions
that I just recorded I can go ahead and
save this permi from body and now again
in the drop down custom macros permi
from body and now I can select these
three dots and pin that to the toolbar
so now this button will run that macro
and we're going to do that right now
delete that primitive and this body and
we'll run the macro so it says copy this
body turn this one into a primitive
change the opacity on this one to 25 and
create a rigid group between those two
objects all right so that is any macro
if you are cous
[Music]
greetings hello hearty salutations
welcome to teex where we are back with
tutorials I'm excited all right if you
want to follow along with this tutorial
which is the fusion automate command you
want to use the same files as I'm using
they're available part of tech 3D join
membership on YouTube my ti tutorial
dataa all file past and present uh and
future will be available for download as
part of the tech 3D membership plan uh
alternative you can just follow this
along using your own the future so they
make ising design short same short
design where create geometry and part
design in between faes that you right
but it's
not fa you want make so say that face
there that face there start gener
between those faces and here so Weir the
Jo together and Alternatives it's but
basically three you can tell it mat new
body with the fusion component or new
component which be like a part in an
assembly air question to ask might going
to be part the same oneold or for piece
so body but youve also got bodies to
avoid and this one make this really
creative because when you don't have B
toid spial just anywhere wants to go but
put place and can navigate the
navigation of stuff so and then
next on three sides type in three no I
can't okay brilliant why can't there is
Edge number three so we'll do a
triangular about here that's it I don't
care about the size to First sh hon in
the position I want the position to be
on that Cent line why not so now when
the material spawns out from this face
and this face here I wanted to avoid a
body of this size and position so let's
go to extrude that we'll go to a
symmetric Extrusion and we'll just say B
There we go so it'll have to dodge that
area when it makes the new material it
doesn't have to be a triangle right it
can be any shape you want you can define
t e
compound gears use multiple gears on
the same a to take a rotary motion input
and create a rary motion output the
dire of travel for the input will be
opposite for the gear on the next axle
over but every other axle has the same
direction of
rotation to increase torque a smaller
gear on the first axle can connect to a
bigger gear on the second axle this
second
[Music]
axle
e
e e
on to
create
e
e e
the hex nut from the center origin I'll
type out a radius of 12 mm now you can
also clear out the command with the
Escape key select the horizontal
constraint in the toolbar and then
select an edge this will make sure the
sketch is fully constrained we'll also
need to create a 16 mm Center Circle for
the internal
thread for the height of the nut I'm
going to extrude this to 8 mm the next
step would be for us to apply the
internal thread to the nut to do this we
can activate the thread feature and
simply select the inside cylinder once
again Fusion 360 will automatically
detect the closest thread type after
confirming that it did detect the M16
thread that we're going for we can click
the okay button at this point we can
take a look at the section analysis to
see how much clearance there is between
the two parts from the inspect drop down
select the section analysis then simply
click one of the vertical origin planes
if I zoom in you'll see that Fusion 360
automatically includes a clearance
between exterior and interior threads
this first thread nut is going to be our
first clearance test by default it has a
0.1 mm clearance depending on the size
of the thread and the tolerance of your
3D printer this default clearance
typically needs modifications but we'll
use it as the start of our test let's
make a copy so I can show you how to
increase the clearance which is
typically needed before 3D printing on a
consumer level printer I'm going to
shift click the two components in the
browser I'll right click to select copy
and then I'll right click on the top
level assembly which will let us choose
the past new Option it's important that
you select past new types of 3D printing
projects with Fusion 360 workflows that
you find the most challenging the EAS is
offset the thread faces based on your
printer Toler component as Inc remember
that this shortcut activates either
press command or the a negative distance
to add a slightly larger clearance
between this external thread and the
internal thread of the nut I want a
total of 0.2m so I'll offset This Thread
another
0.1m we then need to do the same thing
for the bottom I'll select the bottom
thread flank hit the keyboard shortcut
letter q and I'll type out the Bott we
then need to do the same
same thing for the bottom I'll select
the bottom thread flank hit the keyboard
shortcut letter q and I'll type out NE
0.1 mm if you turn the copy nut
component back on you'll see that we now
have a larger clearance between the two
parts
soils command and I'll s the clearance
added to the
default again so we can do one more test
e e
okay I guess I was muted that whole
freaking time
fantastic
um I'm pretty sure he does this too
pass print you look at the thread as we
all know most plastic threads don't do
well when they're very thin as they
break down threads we nice round over to
the edge of to do that to this third
model so we can compare the printed
results I'll hide the nut component so
we can work with the edge of the threads
I'll then select the face of the edge
before hitting the keyboard shortcut
letter f as inot for the fet command
I'll add a fet of 0.05 mm as you can see
that adds a nice round over to each Edge
however when you think about it and if
we f it to apply a greater F radius I'll
select the edge and then I'm going to
hit the keyboard shortcut letter Q this
time I'll type a distance
of1 before reactivating the FIP command
I'll select the edge again this time
I'll add a f radius of15 mm which equals
a total ofm something that will make a
significant difference so then what the
[__] did I do wrong
bro how am I still getting this
wrong in the
print that is insane that I'm not
getting this
why for
okay okay yeah I'm starting over
[__] uh
thread this M16 yeah that's
good oh
[__] thread
wait wait can I can I get used to this
thing okay
now we uh we did this we
did
Q minus
.1 okay then we did this Q Min
-.1 okay then we did
this Q
.1
wait
okay now if this fillet doesn't get rid
of that stupid middle section I'm going
to freak out
why bro
why but there is that middle section
what the hell am I missing and why does
that look like
crap maybe I should just save this
component no I'm determined dude I got
to get this thing this is so
annoying how did I mess this up so badly
we also want to make sure to add the
same radius to our internal thread of
the nut I'll turn the visibility of the
when you think about it 05 is very small
Ed what we can do instead is offset the
face of the edge first which will allow
us to apply a greater fet radius I'll
select the edge and then I'm going to
hit the keyboard shortcut letter
Q this time I'll type a distance of
.1 before reactivating the fet command
I'll select the edge again this time
I'll add a fillet radius of .15 mm dude
I literally did exactly that
what did I forget this will ensure that
we can create copies of the design so we
can test the different
clearances however I M I'm to this dier
for the
L we're also given however if select
this option you canag the blue
Direction an M6 in this Cas it was
correct however you can from on the type
Project work if I swi this to 20 you'll
see the designation switch to M2 for now
I'll switch this back to 16 mm with the
designation option you can also Define
the pitch of the thread the pitch of
thread is the distance from one CR to
the next right now
the to create a new sketch the top or
the bottom a for
Ned we'll to create 16 CER ccle for the
internal thre
this the two parts from the select the
section analysis then simply cck one the
vertical orig planes if I zoom in you'll
see that F aom includes a clearance
between exterior and interi threads this
first thread is going to be our first
clearance set by default it has a 0.1 mm
clearance depending on the size of the
thread and the tolerance of your printer
this default clearance typically needs
modifications but we use it as the start
of our test let's make a copy so I can
show you how to increase the clearance
which is typically needed before three
printing on a consumer level printer I'm
going to sh collect the two components
in the browser I'll right click to
select copy and then I'll right click on
the top level assembly which will let us
choose the paste new Option it's
important that you select paste new and
not paste as you want us to create anink
copy so our first two components aren't
altered now I'm going to Dag the cop to
the right and then I'll click okay
before we add additional clearance i'
love to hear what of projects
with have a clear option built into the
thre command instead what you have to do
is thre fa based on your PR toleran I'm
going to hide the copy nut and I'll
activate the copy thread component we'll
select the top thre and then we hit the
keyb short cut as in remember that this
shortcut activates either the Press Comm
or the offset command Bas on our
selection we want to offset the face a
negative distance to add a slightly
larger clearance between this external
thread and the internal thread of the
nut I want a total of 0.2m so I'll
offset This Thread another 0.1m then do
the same for the bottom I'll s the botom
L hit the keyboard short cut and I'll
type out .1m dude am I tripping or am I
doing it right swe for youred size and
your there are so many factors between
being different setting
the top thre component I'd like top
about the clearance added to the default
two to
make I'm going to copy the latest red
and n and I'll make sure to select from
the top LEL component aftering them over
to the right I'm going to turn the
section analysis back on I'll also make
sure the red component is AC if you look
at the threads on most plastic parts for
example the threads on a disposable
water bottle you'll notice they're
almost always round over as we all know
most metals are stronger than Plastics
and they hold up better long term
generally plastic threads don't do well
very thin as they break down and get G
up to the point that they don't work
which becomes a serious issue with
threads therefore one of the things you
can do with reint threads is to add a
fill it or nice round over to the edge
of threats this will make them much more
durable we're going to do that the third
model we compare
the
bro what the
hell whatever that should be
fine okay so
now what is it we want to do on this top
face we want to draw and then we want to
draw but we could just project this
thing we could just copy it create
polygon circum polygon
boop
boop hello
okay wait let me let me go back to the
nut part cuz the nut to achieve the same
thing to make
this top of the dialog as a lot of
people looked over the threads in a 2d
drawing happens as 3D
print okay here we go of 12 mm now you
can also clear out the command with the
Escape key select the horizontal Con in
the toar and then select an edge this
will make sure the sketch is fully conin
we'll also need to create a 16m Center
Circle for the internal
thread for the height of nut I'm going
to ex this to mm the next St would be
firstly inter
16 okay now we can select this and this
when we do minus 10 there should be no
cut that shows up right okay so and then
he does new body but I actually want to
cancel this whole thing and do
uh this okay wait so
new
component this is going to be the
uh oh wait no this is called the
bolt and then we're going to create
uh new component
called
nut okay then this body goes into
bolt okay all
right so now we create a sketch and then
we do we still have all of our
[__] whatever I'm just going to do it
again okay then we do minus
10 that shouldn't have cut anything
now if we hide this we should get this
we can redo that and we can do
thread and I think that was it right to
do this we can activate the thre feature
and simply select the inside cylinder
once again Fusion 360 will automa DET
the closest thread Tye after confirming
that it did detect the M16 thread that
we're going for we can click the okay
button oh yeah at this point we can take
a look at the section analysis to see
how much clearance there is between the
two parts from the inspect drop down
select the section analysis then simply
click one of the vertical origin planes
if I zoom in you'll see that Fusion 360
automatically includes a clearance
between exterior and interior threads
this first thread in nut is going to be
our first clearance test by default it
has a 0.1 mm clearance depending on the
size of the thread and the tolerance of
your 3D printer this default clearance
typically needs modifications but we'll
use it as the start of our test let's
make a copy so I can show you how to
increase the clearance which is
typically needed before 3D printing on a
consumer level printer I'm going to
shift click the two components in the
browser I'll right click to select copy
and then I'll right click on the top
level assembly which will let us choose
the paste new Option it's important that
you select as you want us to create an
unlink copy so our first two components
aren't altered drag the copies to the
right and then I'll click okay before we
add additional clearance I'd love to
hear what types of 3D
projects bro I am bugging out how did
this get messed up so
badly I mean honestly it shouldn't
matter
that's so [__]
lame okay it it shouldn't matter
though the only thing we need to do is
that offset faces [__]
many of you have already commented with
great ideas but the more people that
comment the easier it will be for me to
create content with the highest demand
help me out by commenting down below
with at least one 3D printing workflow
that you struggle with select the
corresponding this time I'll add a
fillet radius .5 mm which equals AAL ofm
something that will a signant difference
in the print we also want to make to add
the same Rus to our internal thread of
the nut I'll turn theity of the nut
component back on and I'll make sure
it's active I'll select the
corresponding inner Edge before once
again applying a fillet of15
mm last but not least we also want to
make sure to mark this third version so
we can tell them apart okay so he only
does The Fill Up Wait
B flank hit the keyboard shortcut letter
q and I'll type out 0.1 mm that we now
have a to find the perfect clearance for
your desired thread size and your 3D
printer tolerance there are so many
factors in play between 3D printers
being different set the S threads more
them I'll activate the text command and
I'll select the top base of the thread
component I'd like to type out the
clearance added to the default for this
one I'll type out negative
0.1 okay so let's just do the fill it
then for
okay that should be fine
okay so now
now we need an
L to go like this
and we'll just mirror
it so this needs to be 17 then
sure let's just make it nice
numbers
okay actually is there going to be
enough
clearance for
yeah I know what happened is that I put
the sketch on the wrong plane by by
drawing that L and extruding the L as
opposed to drawing a rectangle extruding
the rectangle and then drawing on the
top of the
rectangle okay but regardless what is
the distance between
here and [__] [__]
[__] here 28
so we should have enough
clearance to get the nut
on okay so
it's oh it deleted my
Extrusion
[__] so much nonsense in this program
okay dude I'm starting over that was
hell that was hell with the rotation all
right so this is going to
be
um no yeah
okay it's 30
make this one 30 and this one
100 okay then we extrude this
by two let's make the wall thickness
two okay then we want to draw on this
face we want to add our little l so we
want to do this to here then make this
two
enter now this is all locked in place
and I'm going to extrude this
30 is that right or is that a
symmetrical why doesn't it give me the
face Dimensions it's so
annoying okay so we need to undo
this actually you know what we should do
go back to this
thing we want to go back to this change
this to
be
okay all right now they're both 30 now
we want to draw some circles on
here uh sort of I don't know that that
should be fine right okay then this
needs to be
17 this needs to be this going to be
yeah 15 right so it's actually centered
in this thing and this is going to be 15
also okay then we want
to extrude
this two object bam okay I could have
just put minus two now let's make
a mid plane construct midplanes like
this
thing and this thing okay now we do
mirror okay now we do features want to
select this feature mirror plane This
Plane okay so now we have two things
then what we want to do is we want to
have looking from this direction we want
to have
an
uh an L that goes like
this so now if I were to create a sketch
on this plane
I'm going to have
like let's make it
32 and then whatever it's going to be
yeah
100 okay then
two then oh wait we need the other sides
uh so this is going to be 30 going be
two this is going to be
30 this is going to be 98
what wait hold
on from here oh it's going to be
okay so then this
bracket is going to get extruded and
that
oh wait I did this
wrong bro I got to
okay
so what it actually is is it's not
this so let's just undo all this it's
um here to
here why don't I get a
uh
oh this going to be 32 also this going
to be
90 okay then this way is going to be
two this way is going to be
30 [__] what the
hell
90 and this
one okay what's wrong with this
oh now we extrude this like a 100 right
okay then I okay
so uh no this needs to be an
[__] this needs to be a new
body so now you have two bodies right
okay extrud this you can't really
extrude
it for
okay so now we're going to put a bolt in
there and then we want to uh okay so
this are these are identical parts right
so I actually want
to let's see if we can avoid building
this whole thing so can I just copy
this copy all right if I make a new
thing and I paste
this paste dude yeah this program is so
[__]
bad it's actually incredible how bad it
is um okay wait but what happens if I if
I make a new component I
say it doesn't even let me name it okay
fine
let's
let's copy
this and paste new okay
cool now we want to paste new
again and this
one we want
to we're going to rotate it like
this and then rotate it like this no no
no we need to flip it around
right because we
want right except now we need to
rotate which one this one
180 okay perfect
okay now we want to
join this oh wait wait it's so easy to
get these JS
wrong so here there's
that why are you going away why are you
hiding okay and fine and we can just
move this minus Point uh minus two all
right I'm fine with
that but no why is
that I must have designed this
wrong can I
oh oh it needs to be 16
actually I wonder if it Imports a
timeline does
it close up
is this the right
one but do we get the whole
timeline Yik that's really
annoying the problem is that it's 15
away from there
oh but it's 13 away from
there
H do we just extrude it I feel like we
just extrude it I mean at this point I
just
want to
um to uh print these okay fine so now I
want to take this body all wait so we
construct mid
plane between
here yeah okay I think that's
right wait no that seems a little offc
[Music]
centered oh wait
okay
now this
body cross
there a
join yeah okay that's fine that's a good
warning I understand what that means
okay so
now the thing
is the distance between here and here
it's only 36
mm which is not that good we actually
want it to be
more probably I mean that looks like
it's more than 3 cm across
but okay but I want to try to insert the
Fastener can I just watch a video about
this really
quickly fast and
nerds [__] got
you uh be fasten
okay fine I'll try this first
one what's up guys Justin here with the
fusion Essentials so in today's video
we're going to check out a brand new
feature They just added to Fusion 360
that allows you to automatically add
Fasteners to objects let's go ahead and
just jump into it all right so this is
actually a really cool feature so we've
had access to like McMaster Car and
other things like that in the past but
what they've just done in the newest
version of fusion 360 is they've added
the ability to insert Fasteners and so
what you can do is within this object
right here and I just created some
random plates um there's no like Rhyme
or Reason to these or anything like that
but you've got the ability to click on
this button right here to insert a
Fastener well if you look at this we now
have a library of bolts screws nuts and
washers in here that you can add
automatically which is super cool so
let's say that we wanted to add maybe
like a uh we'll go with a round head
right here and we'll go with a maybe a
self-tapping and we're just going to
pick one of the options that are over
here so notice how you get a ton of
different options in here for things
that you can select you can kind of move
this out um and move this over in order
to see what if I just try this interfer
hex
M16 is that going to work
well if I just look up
M16 right
whatever hex square is there a hex there
we go hex head self-tapping
sheet
metal look there's so many options bro
hex bolt that sounds good
yeah that's wait but what is
that oh
yeah bro this [__] sucks
actually what if I just search M16
okay yeah see that's what I'm saying
this thing kind of sucks the length I
said 24 right oh of course not we can't
just put in our own length that would be
insane all right whatever Let's
uh say okay
okay so now we want to put
this
uh just say okay and then let's J this
and what do we want to do it's not
actually that
obvious okay that actually seems pretty
good but now need a bolt for it how do I
get the bolt for
it or I mean the nut M16
nut M16 hex
nut heavy hex nut
this shit's so annoying where did all
these bodies
go oh they're all they're in a specific
Fastener
thing okay so let's Jay this bad
boy
to
here
okay look at look at him m yeah I'm not
even gonna be able to get this
in that's absolutely
insane okay but okay let's see if we can
mirror
these not
bad that is not bad this needs to come
out a little bit actually
though but see these were copied in as
new components whereas these are just in
the Fasteners I wonder if I can just
move them into
Fastener yeah see I don't know it's it's
just doing so many random things at this
point uh fine but let's move this I
don't know one minus
one we get the exact left okay
so that's two okay so that's what it
needs to be
[Music]
why cuz it's actually fastened but then
these
aren't oh I just don't know what it's
doing that's the thing it's like there
is so much random thing seemingly random
things it's
doing I mirror these Fasteners they
don't become Fasteners they become
components okay but when they are in the
Fasteners thing so what if I just try
to I don't even know what that
is but so if you so if I just try to
move this
oh because that's what the joint is I
guess but then if I try to move this guy
nothing of the sort
happens in some ways I kind of prefer
that
regardless I think what I'm going to
do
is okay I'm going
to oh wait wait but I don't want to do
that I want to save the
body save as mesh I'm just going to
print out a bunch of these and I'm going
to print out the uh just two of the
things okay so this is going to be the
M16 uh
filled
nut okay and then what I want to do here
is just make like
a uh my library folder and this is just
designs that I'll probably use in the
future okay then
here oh
bro what did I call that did I call that
nut or
not yeah
okay I always get nuts and bolts
confused it's like left and right okay
so this is going to me M16
bolt or 3D printing I mean I don't
really need to add that in there but
okay so now
they don't know oh they do
okay so that seems pretty good
right all right so let's just make one
more set we'll have four sets of these
or wait you know what I should just do
one for now
um and then I do want to
insert uh I don't even know what to
called look at this is a garbage one
don't save
this we want
to okay well we need both to test its
fasten ability
so oh well let me try to do this text
thing uh
okay and then on this face we want to do
the same and we want to put [__] [__] go
like this
okay
here okay
cool so this is going to be uh in a
project called compound gears
okay oh man this is tough stuff you
really got to battle this freaking
program uh okay so we're going to save
this as a
mesh and this should not go in there
this should go in just
here oh wait but we don't want to do
that we want to do
this why does it
minimize there's just so many bugs you
know okay save
this okay so now we want to import
um bracket 1 and bracket
2 okay so that one's just slightly
longer that's the only thing is it's 2
mm
longer um
okay that's good with me I'm just going
to print this out
why isn't it showing me the here we
go I wonder if it does any op I mean you
place everything but like why can't you
have an optimized travel
thing whatever um all right let's get
this thing done
is there anything in there right now
that I have to run over I don't think
so all right and then this will be sort
of like the end of the stream because I
got to go to the gym
all
right okay so what did what do we do in
this
uh five
hours pretty much nothing the rack and
pinion is cool though I like this
thing hopefully I can get through all
all of them